5 human cases of bird flu in Colorado poultry workers, health officials report
Five poultry workers from a farm in northeast Colorado have bird flu, state and federal health officials reported Sunday. Four of the cases have been confirmed by the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, and one is presumptively positive for H5N1, also known as avian influenza, and is pending confirmation. The disease was contracted while working at a "commercial egg layer operation," the Colorado Department of Public Health and Environment said in a statement Sunday. On Friday, when only three cases were confirmed, the CDC said they worked "at a poultry facility experiencing an outbreak of the H5N1 virus that is circulating in wild birds and has been causing multistate outbreaks in dairy cows and poultry." The five workers were culling poultry at the farm when they showed mild symptoms, including pink eye and common respiratory infections, state officials said in Sunday's update. None required hospitalization. Symptoms among the new bird flu cases included "fever, chills, coughing and sore throat/runny nose," alongside pink eye and eye tearing, a CDC spokesperson confirmed Monday. There have been four confirmed human cases of bird flu in the U.S. since March, all in farmworkers, with two in Michigan, one in Texas and one in Colorado, the CDC said.  In the latter case, a Northern Colorado farm worker suffered pink eye after having direct contact with cattle that were infected with avian flu, CDPHE previously reported.  According to the U.S. Department of Agriculture, there have been bird flu outbreaks confirmed in 152 cattle herds so far this year.  The CDC said the risk to the public from bird flu remains low, noting that "there are no signs of unexpected increases in flu activity otherwise in Colorado, or in other states affected by H5 bird flu outbreaks in cows and poultry." However, it added that "human infections with this novel influenza virus (and others) are concerning because of the potential to cause severe disease." Federal officials are considering if and when to deploy4.8 million dosesof bird flu vaccine. Finlandannouncedlast month it would offer shots to workers who might be exposed to the virus.