Video shows ship's "lucky" encounter with world's largest iceberg
Britain's polar research ship has crossed paths with the largest iceberg in the world — an "incredibly lucky" encounter that enabled scientists to collect seawater samples around the colossal berg as it drifts out of Antarctic waters, the British Antarctic Surveysaid Monday. The sighting came just days after scientists confirmed the iceberg was "on the move" for the first time in 37 years. The RRS Sir David Attenborough, which is on its way to Antarctica for its first scientific mission, passed the mega iceberg known as A23a on Friday near the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula. The survey released dramatic video taken by the ship's crew, including drone footage that showed a pod of orcas swimming next to the massive iceberg. The #RRSSirDavidAttenborough has visited the largest iceberg in the world, #A23a 🚢🧊It's 3,900km2 - so a bit bigger than Cornwall.The epic team on board, including Theresa Gossman, Matthew Gascoyne & Christopher Grey, got us this footage. pic.twitter.com/d1fOprVWZL The iceberg — equivalent to three times the size of New York City and more than twice the size of Greater London — had been grounded for more than three decades in the Weddell Sea after it split from the Antarctic's Filchner Ice Shelf in 1986. Before its calving in 1986, the colossal iceberg hosted a Soviet research station. It began drifting in recent months, and has now moved into the Southern Ocean, helped by wind and ocean currents. Scientists say it is now likely to be swept along into "iceberg alley" a common route for icebergs to float toward the sub-Antarctic island of South Georgia. "It is incredibly lucky that the iceberg's route out of the Weddell Sea sat directly across our planned path, and that we had the right team aboard to take advantage of this opportunity," said Andrew Meijers, chief scientist aboard the research ship. "We're fortunate that navigating A23a hasn't had an impact on the tight timings for our science mission, and it is amazing to see this huge berg in person — it stretches as far as the eye can see," he added. Laura Taylor, a scientist working on the ship, said the team took samples of ocean surface waters around the iceberg's route to help determine what life could form around it and how the iceberg and others like it impact carbon in the ocean. "We know that these giant icebergs can provide nutrients to the waters they pass through, creating thriving ecosystems in otherwise less productive areas. What we don't know is what difference particular icebergs, their scale, and their origins can make to that process," she said. A23a's movement comes about 10 months after a massive piece of Antarctica's Brunt Ice Shelf — achunk about the size of two New York Cities— broke free. The Brunt Ice Shelf lies across the Weddell Sea from the site of the Larsen C ice shelf on the Antarctic Peninsula. Last year, the Larsen C ice shelf, which was roughly the size of New York City and was long considered to be stable,collapsed into the sea. The RRS Sir David Attenborough, named after the British naturalist, is on a 10-day science trip that's part of an $11.3 million project to investigate how Antarctic ecosystems and sea ice drive global ocean cycles of carbon and nutrients.