Scenes of summer: Heat's death toll rising and floodwaters raging
An area from California to South Florida was enduring more deadly scorching heat Thursday as torrential rain flooded communities in Kentucky. Phoenix broke an all-time temperature record and rescuers pulled people from rain-swamped homes and vehicles in the Bluegrass State. Elsewhere, a tornado heavily damaged a major Pfizer pharmaceutical plant in North Carolina Wednesday. Heat-related deaths continued to rise in Maricopa County, where Phoenix is located. Public health officials reported Wednesday that six more heat-associated fatalities were confirmed last week, bringing the year's total so far to 18. All six deaths didn't necessarily occur last week as some may have happened weeks earlier but were confirmed as heat-related only after a thorough investigation. By this time last year, there had been 29 confirmed heat-associated deaths in the county and another 193 under investigation. Meanwhile, Phoenix broke an all-time record Wednesday morning for a warm low temperature of 97 degrees, raising the threat of heat-related illness for residents unable to cool off adequately overnight. The previous record was 96 in 2003, the weather service reported. Phoenix, a desert city of more than 1.6 million people, had set a separate record Tuesday among large U.S. cities by marking 19 straight days of temperatures of 110 or more. It topped 110 again Wednesday. National Weather Service meteorologist Matthew Hirsh said Phoenix's high of 119 degrees Wednesday tied the fourth highest temperature ever recorded there. The highest temperature of all time was 122, set in 1990. Lindsay LaMont, who works at the Sweet Republic ice cream shop Phoenix, said business had been slow during the day with people sheltering inside to escape the heat. "But I'm definitely seeing a lot more people come in the evening to get their ice cream when things start cooling off," LaMont said. Across the country, Miami marked its 16th straight day of heat indexes in excess of 105. The previous record was five days in June 2019. "And it's only looking to increase as we head into the later part of the week and the weekend," said Cameron Pine, a National Weather Service meteorologist. The region has also seen 38 consecutive days with a heat index threshold of 100 and sea surface temperatures are reported to be several degrees warmer than normal. "There really is no immediate relief in sight," Pine said. The Farmworker Association of Florida said 29-year-old Efrain Lopez Garcia was the first Homestead farmworker to die from the extreme heat this year and the second in the state, CBS News Miami reported. "It is happening, we are scared because more people are saying they are fainting and feeling the symptoms (of heat stroke)," said Yvette Cruz, the association's communication coordinator.  A 71-year-old Los Angeles-area man died at a trailhead in Death Valley National Park in eastern California on Tuesday afternoon as temperatures reached 121 degrees or higher, and rangers suspect heat was a factor, the National Park Service said in a statement Wednesday. The official temperature at nearby aptly-named Furnace Creek was 121°F around the time of his death, the service said, adding that actual temperatures inside Golden Canyon were likely much higher due to canyon walls radiating the sun's heat.  It was possibly the second heat-related fatality in Death Valley this summer. A 65-year-old man was found dead in a car on July 3. Human-caused climate change and a newly formed El Nino are combining to shatter heat records worldwide, scientists say. The entire globe has simmered to record heat both in June and July. Nearly every day this month, the global average temperature has been warmer than the unofficial hottest day recorded before 2023, according to University of Maine's Climate Reanalyzer. Atmospheric scientists say the global warming responsible for unrelenting heat in the Southwest also is making extreme rainfall a more frequent reality. Forecasters said there didn't appear to be much relief in sight from the heat and storms. In Kentucky, meteorologists warned of a "life-threatening situation" in the communities of Mayfield and Wingo, which were inundated by flash flooding this week from thunderstorms. Kentucky Gov. Andy Beshear declared a state of emergency there Wednesday as more storms threatened. Forecasters expect up to 10 inches of rain could yet fall on parts of Kentucky, Illinois and Missouri near where the Ohio and Mississippi rivers converge. The storm system was forecast to move Thursday and Friday over New England, where the ground remains saturated after recent floods. In Connecticut, a mother and her 6-year-old daughter died after being swept down a swollen river Tuesday, CBS Hartford affiliate WFSB-TV reports. In southeastern Pennsylvania, a search continued for two children caught in flash flooding Saturday night. In North Carolina, Pfizer confirmed that the large manufacturing complex was damaged by a twister that touched down shortly after midday near Rocky Mount, but said in an email that it had no reports of serious injuries. A later company statement said all employees were safely evacuated and accounted for.   Parts of roofs were ripped open atop its massive buildings. The Pfizer plant stores large quantities of medicine that were tossed about, said Nash County Sheriff Keith Stone. "I've got reports of 50,000 pallets of medicine that are strewn across the facility and damaged through the rain and the wind," Stone said.  The plant produces anesthesia and other drugs as well as nearly 25% of all sterile injectable medications used in U.S. hospitals, Pfizer said on its website. Erin Fox, senior pharmacy director at University of Utah Health, said the damage "will likely lead to long-term shortages while Pfizer works to either move production to other sites or rebuilds."   The National Weather Service said in a tweet that the damage was consistent with an EF3 tornado with wind speeds up to 150 mph. The Edgecombe County Sheriff's Office, where part of Rocky Mount is located, said on Facebook that they had reports of three people injured in the tornado, and that two of them had life-threatening injuries. .