Donald Trump's "God Bless the USA" Bibles were printed in China
Thousands of Donald Trump's "God Bless the USA" Bibles — sold for $59.99 each — were printed in a country that the former president has frequently accused of engaging in unfair trade practices and stealing American jobs: China. Global trade records reviewed by The Associated Press show that a printing company in China's eastern city of Hangzhou shipped close to 120,000 of the Bibles to the United States between early February and late March. The estimated value of the three separate shipments was $342,000, or less than $3 per Bible, according to databases that use customs data to track exports and imports. Based on the Bible's retail price, the potential sales revenue could be about $7 million. The Trump Bible's connection to China, which has not been previously reported, reveals a stark contrast between the former president's harsh anti-China rhetoric and his string of commercial deals while campaigning. Trump, who licensed his name in in partnership with country singer Lee Greenwood for the branded Bible, has so far earned about $300,000 in royalties from the deal, according to the former president's financial disclosure forms. Meanwhile, Trump is campaigning for reelection in the November 5 presidential election on a platform that includes relying on tariffs to steer Americans away from buying imports. While he's proposed a 10% tariff on all imports, he's suggested slapping duties of 60% or more on Chinese imports. If applied to his "God Bless the USA" Bible, the 60% tariff on the China-printed books would boost its $59.99 price to $95.98. The Trump campaign declined to comment. The largest and most recent load of 70,000 copies of Trump's Bible arrived by container vessel at the Port of Los Angeles on March 28, two days after Trump announced in a video posted on his Truth Social platform that he'd partnered with Greenwood to hawk the Bibles. In the video, Trump blended religion with his campaign message as he urged viewers to buy the Bible, inspired by Greenwood's ballad, "God Bless the USA." The Bible includes copies of the U.S. Constitution, Declaration of Independence, Bill of Rights and Pledge of Allegiance. "This Bible is a reminder that the biggest thing we have to bring back in America, and to make America great again, is our religion, Trump said. Judeo-Christian values, he added, are "under attack, perhaps as never before." Trump didn't say where the "God Bless the USA" Bibles are printed, or what they cost; a copy hand-signed by the former president sells for $1,000. Trump also didn't disclose how much he earns per sale.  A version of the $59.99 Bible memorializes the July 13 assassination attempt on the former president in Pennsylvania. Trump's name is on the cover above the phrase, "The Day God Intervened." The wording appears to have been stamped on after the Bible was produced. Trump said Saturday his would-be assassin did not succeed "by the hand of providence and the grace of God." The Bibles are sold exclusively through a website that states it is not affiliated with any political campaign nor is it owned or controlled by Trump. A photo posted on the website shows Trump sitting at his desk in the Oval Office with Greenwood standing beside him. In another photo, the former president smiles broadly while holding a copy of the Bible. The website states that Trump's name and image are used under a paid license from CIC Ventures, a company Trump reported owning in his most recent financial disclosure. CIC Ventures earned $300,000 in Bible sales royalties, according to the disclosure. It's unclear what period that covers or how much Trump received in additional payments since the disclosure was released in August. CIC Ventures also has a license to sell Trump-branded sneakers that are selling for $399 a pair. The gold-toned high tops are currently sold out, according to the site selling the shoes. AP received no response to questions sent to an email on the Bible website and to a publicist for Greenwood. For years, Trump has castigated Beijing as an obstacle to America's economic success, slapping hefty tariffs on Chinese imports during his presidency and threatening even more stringent measures if he's elected again. He blamed China for the COVID-19 outbreak and recently suggested, without evidence, that thousands of Chinese immigrants are flooding the U.S. to build an "army" and attack America. But Trump also has an eye on his personal finances. Pitching Bibles is one of a dizzying number of for-profit ventures he's launched or promoted, including diamond-encrusted watches, sneakers, photo books, cryptocurrency and digital trading cards. The web of enterprises has stoked conflict-of-interest concerns. Selling products at prices that exceed their value may be considered a campaign contribution, said Claire Finkelstein, founder of the nonpartisan Center for Ethics and the Rule of Law and a law professor at the University of Pennsylvania. "You have to assume that everything that the individual does is being done as a candidate and so that any money that flows through to him benefits him as a candidate," Finkelstein said. "Suppose Vladimir Putin were to buy a Trump watch. Is that a campaign finance violation? I would think so." Selling Bibles, she added, "strikes me as a profoundly problematic mixing of religion and state." As president, Trump would be in a position to influence policies and markets to benefit businesses in which he and his family have financial stakes. While president, his administration exempted Bibles and other religious texts from tariffs imposed on billions of dollars of Chinese goods. There's a potentially lucrative opportunity for Trump to sell 55,000 of the "God Bless the USA" Bibles to Oklahoma after the state's top education official ordered public schools to incorporate Scripture into lessons for grades 5 through 12. Oklahoma plans to spend $3 million on Bibles that initially matched Trump's edition: a King James Version that contains the U.S. founding documents. The request was revised Monday to allow the U.S. historical documents to be bound with the Bible or provided separately. Oklahoma's Department of Education did not answer AP's questions about whether the Bibles must be printed in the United States or if any department officials have discussed the proposal with Trump or his representatives. "There are hundreds of Bible publishers and we expect a robust competition for this proposal," said department spokesman Dan Isett. China is one of the world's leading producers of Bibles, so it's not unusual for the Trump-endorsed version to be printed there.  The first delivery of Trump Bibles was labeled "God Bless USA," according to the information from the Panjiva and Import Genius databases. The other two were described as "Bibles." All the books were shipped by New Ade Cultural Media, a printing company in Hangzhou that describes itself as a "custom Bible book manufacturer." They were sent to Freedom Park Design, a company in Alabama identified in databases as the importer of the Bibles. Tammy Tang, a sales representative for New Ade, told AP all three shipments were "God Bless the USA" Bibles. She said New Ade received the orders via the WhatsApp messaging service and confirmed they were from Freedom Park Design. The books were printed on presses near the company's Hangzhou office, she said. Tang did not disclose the sales price or other details, citing customer confidentiality. "They didn't come to meet us," Tang said by telephone. "We just do the production." She declined further comment and referred interview requests to Freedom Park Design. Freedom Park Design was incorporated in Florida on March 1, according to business registration records. An aspiring country singer named Jared Ashley is the company's president. He also co-founded 16 Creative, a digital marketing firm that uses the same Gulf Shores address and processes online orders for branded merchandise sold by entertainers and authors. Ashley hung up on a reporter who called to ask about the Bibles. Greenwood is a client of 16 Creative, according to the firm's website. He launched the American-flag emblazoned Bible in 2021. His song, "God Bless the USA," was released 40 years ago and is a staple at Trump rallies. Greenwood has also appeared at the former president's campaign events. Tim Wildsmith, a Baptist minister who reviews Bibles on his YouTube channel, said he quickly noticed the signs of a cheaply made book when his "God Bless the USA" Bible arrived wrapped in plastic inside a padded mailer. It had a faux-leather cover, and words were jammed together on the pages, making it hard to read. He also found sticky pages that ripped when pulled apart, and there was no copyright page or information about who printed the Bible, or where it was printed. "I was shocked by how poor the quality of it was," Wildsmith said. "It says to me that it's more about the love of money than it is the love of our country.".