Biden surveys storm damage in Georgia and Florida as death toll passes 200
Update: The death toll from Helene continued to rise, with at least 238 deaths confirmed as of Oct. 9, 2024. President Biden visited Florida and Georgia on Thursday to survey the widespread damage from Hurricane Helene and receive updates on the federal, state and local response to the storm, saying Congress has an "obligation" to make sure the southeastern states have the resources they need. The president took an aerial tour of Florida's Big Bend, where Hurricane Helen struck as a Category 4 storm last week. The death toll stood at more than 200 people across the Southeast, with more missing, as cities and towns continue to dig out from the rubble. Mr. Biden said the work to rebuild will cost "billions of dollars" and "Congress has an obligation, it seems to me, to ensure that states have the resources they need." Both Mr. Biden and congressional leaders have said the federal government will likely need to pass supplemental funding to respond to the damage and the humanitarian crisis that followed. The trip was the president's second consecutive day viewing hurricane damage in the region. He visited the Carolinas on Wednesday, surveying the flood damage from Greenville, South Carolina, to Asheville, North Carolina, by air, and receiving emergency response updates from officials in Raleigh. The president announced the federal government will cover "100%" of all debris removal and emergency protective measure costs in North Carolina for six months, and will do the same for Florida and Georgia for the next 90 days.  After spending the last two days with Democratic and Republican state and local officials alike, including Republican Sen. Rick Scott of Florida and Republican Sen. Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, the president said there are no Republicans or Democrats in this crisis — "only Americans." "In moments like this, it's time to put politics aside," he said against the backdrop of a damaged Ray City, Georgia. "There are no Democrats or Republicans out here." The president acknowledged to that residents have "been through hell." Vice President Kamala Harris was in Augusta, Georgia, on Wednesday, receiving updates on the aftermath of Helene. As of Thursday morning, storm-related deaths reached at least 217 across Florida, Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina, Tennessee and Virginia. Hundreds are still missing, as communities suffer still without power, running water and passable roads.  On Thursday, the president's first stop was in Tallahassee, Florida, where he toured of damage from the air en route to Perry, Florida. The president received an on-the-ground briefing in Keaton Beach, surrounded by debris. Scott joined Mr. Biden for the tour. Mr. Biden announced Wednesday that he's directing the Pentagon to deploy up to 1,000 active-duty soldiers to help deliver food and supplies to cut-off communities in Georgia, Florida and the Carolinas. So far, 40,000 people have applied for disaster assistance, and the Federal Emergency Management Agency has paid out more than $6.2 million to survivors, according to the White House. "I want you to know, I see you, I hear you, I grieve with you, and I promise you, we have your back," the president said Thursday in Georgia. "We're going to stay until you're restored." .