Biden visits Carolinas to survey Hurricane Helene damage
President Biden traveled to the Carolinas on Wednesday for an aerial tour of the widespread damage caused by Hurricane Helene, as well as a briefing on the ground on recovery efforts. Vice President Kamala Harris is in Georgia receiving updates on the emergency response to the storm's devastation there. Mr. Biden said that he approved a request from North Carolina Gov. Roy Cooper for the federal government to cover "100 percent" of all debris removal and emergency protective measure costs for six months. "My heart goes out to everyone who has experienced the unthinkable loss," the president said during a briefing in Raleigh. "But we're here for you." Mr. Biden first headed to Greenville, South Carolina, where utility crews and city public work teams are trying to clear roadways and return power. He went on an aerial tour of the affected region to get a sense of the seismic devastation from above without interfering with recovery efforts. The president and his team flew over Asheville, North Carolina, where some of the worst of the damage is. "Much of Asheville is underwater," Mr. Biden said after the tour. Before he arrived, the White House announced the deployment of 1,000 active-duty U.S. soldiers "to support the delivery of food, water, and other critical commodities to communities impacted by Hurricane Helene." The White House said the troops will join more than 4,800 federal personnel who have already been deployed to help states in the region respond to the storm. On Monday, the president said 600 people remained unaccounted for, as thesearch for survivorscontinues. There were at least 180 storm-related deaths as of Wednesday, CBS News confirmed. The president visited Raleigh in the afternoon for an operational briefing at an emergency operations center. Raleigh, further east, was spared the worst of the damage from Helene. Western North Carolina, where Asheville is, endured the brunt of the damage. Parts of highways were wiped out, and many residents are still without running water, a steady supply of food and other basic needs. Eastern Tennessee also saw severe damage from the storm. On Wednesday afternoon, Harris will be in Augusta, Georgia, to receive updates on the federal government's response to the crisis. Former President Donald Trump was in Valdosta, Georgia, earlier in the week to survey damage. Mr. Biden has said Congress may need to return to Washington to pass supplemental emergency funding for the federal response to the disaster. House Speaker Mike Johnson told Fox News on Wednesday morning that he, too, believes Congress will need to pass additional funding to respond to Helene, but that may not happen until after Election Day. All members of the House are up for reelection this year, and they're in their districts campaigning.