How to watch the VP debate between Tim Walz and JD Vance
Update: A full replay the VP debate, hosted by CBS News on Tuesday, Oct. 1,can be seen in the video player at the top of this page. Washington — Vice presidential candidates Gov. Tim Walz and Sen. JD Vance are going head-to-head at their first and only debate in New York on Tuesday, Oct. 1, asballots in some states are already being mailed to voters weeks before Election Day. Hosted by CBS News, the VP debate between Walz, the Democratic nominee, and Vance, the GOP nominee, is being moderated by "CBS Evening News" anchor and managing editor Norah O'Donnell and "Face the Nation" moderator and chief foreign affairs correspondent Margaret Brennan. The vice presidential debate is being broadcast on the CBS television network beginning at 9 p.m. ET. Coverage of the matchup on CBS stations started at 8 p.m. ET on CBS — find your local CBS station here. The debate can be streamed on the free CBS News app on your connected TV or smartphone, on Paramount+, and all platforms where CBS News 24/7 is available, including CBSNews.com and YouTube. The full debate will be available to watch on CBS News' YouTube page. It is also available hereand in the video player at the top of this page. The debate is taking place at the CBS Broadcast Center in New York City. The 90-minute VP debate is taking place just over a month before Election Day, and about three weeks after the presidential candidates, Vice President Kamala Harris and former President Donald Trump,faced off in their first debate. Like the presidential debate, there will be no live audience. There will be no opening statements from the two vice presidential candidates. Each will be allotted two minutes for closing remarks,according to debate rulesfrom CBS News. While Walz and Vance are scheduled to meet only once on the debate stage, it's unclear whether Harris and Trump will go head-to-head again before the election. The vice president and Democratic presidential nomineeaccepted an invitationfrom CNN for a second debate on Oct. 23, but Trump, the GOP presidential nominee, has said it's too late for another to happen. Walz and Vance have spent the weeks after they were announced as the vice presidential picks for their respective parties on the campaign trail, introducing themselves to voters. Walz is the governor of Minnesota who served more than a decade in the U.S. House. Vance represents Ohio in the U.S. Senate, a post he won in the 2022 midterm elections after rocketing to fame with his 2016 memoir "Hillbilly Elegy." CBS News will host the only planned vice presidential debate between Vance and Walz on Tuesday, Oct. 1, at 9 p.m. ET on CBS and CBS News 24/7. Download the free CBS News app for live coverage, post-debate analysis, comprehensive fact checks and more.