Tim Walz and JD Vance's 2024 VP debate is tonight. Here's what to know.
Washington — Sen. JD Vance of Ohio and Minnesota Gov. Tim Walz — both relative newcomers to the national political spotlight — were facing off Tuesday in the only scheduled vice presidential debate before the November election. The debate was being held three weeks after former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris had their only scheduled debate. Walz, who is Harris' running mate, has had a long career in politics but was largely unknown to voters outside of Minnesota before he joined the Democratic ticket. Vance, the author of "Hillbilly Elegy," was first elected to office in 2022, less than two years before being selected by Trump to be his running mate. Here's what to know about the debate. The debate started at 9 p.m. ET on Tuesday. It will run 90 minutes — the same length as the two presidential debates — and end at 10:30 p.m. ET. "CBS Evening News" anchor and managing editor Norah O'Donnell and "Face the Nation" moderator and chief foreign affairs correspondent Margaret Brennan will moderate the debate. The debate is taking place at the CBS Broadcast Center in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of New York Cityin Midtown Manhattan. The debate is in Studio 45 at the Broadcast Center. After the debate, campaign surrogates and the press will go to the spin room in Studio 42, another studio in the 800,000-square-foot Broadcast Center. Members of the media will be watching the debate and filing their stories from a press pen set up in the cafeteria. Until this summer, Studio 45 was where "Inside Edition" was filmed. "Captain Kangaroo" was also taped in Studio 45 from 1964-1981. CBS News moved into the facility in 1964, and Walter Cronkite broadcast the 1964 election results from Studio 41, which is now home to the "Drew Barrymore Show." Before relocating to the CBS Broadcast Center, CBS was located in the Grand Central Terminal building. The giant studios and sound stages have been home to several soap operas, including "As the World Turns" in Studio 41 and "Guiding Light" in Studio 42. "Last Week Tonight with John Oliver" currently films at Studio 42. In the early 1980s,CBS added 176,400 square feetto the 500,000-square-foot building as part of a $100 million update. The CBS Broadcast Center home toCBS News 24/7, ,CBS New York(WCBS-TV) and several other corporate and third-party productions. It's also the distribution center for the CBS Television Network. Both campaigns agreed to a 90-minute debate with two four-minute commercial breaks. Campaign staff are not allowed to interact with the candidates during the breaks. There will be no audience — a measure also implemented during the two previous presidential debates. At the event's start, the moderators will introduce the candidates in order of the incumbent party, with Walz coming first. There will be no opening statements. Walz will stand behind the lectern on the left side of the stage, which will be on the right side of viewers' screens. Vance will be at the podium on the right side of the stage, but the left side of screens. Candidates, who cannot bring pre-written notes or props on stage, will have two minutes to answer a question and two minutes to respond. They will be allowed one minute for rebuttals. At the moderators' discretion, candidates may get an additional minute to continue a discussion. Unlike the presidential debates, a candidate's microphone will not be muted when their opponent is speaking, but CBS News reserves the right to turn off the microphones. Vance won a virtual coin toss on Thursday, opting to go second with his closing statement. Each candidate will have two minutes for their closing remarks.  No topics or questions will be shared with the campaigns in advance. CBS debate coverage started at 8 p.m. ET on CBS broadcast stations and affiliates. Find your local station here. The debate can be streamed on the free CBS News app on your connected TV or smartphone, onParamount+, and all platforms where CBS News 24/7is available, including CBSNews.com and YouTube. Debate coverage on CBS News 24/7 began at 4 p.m. ET.