Maps show voter registration options and deadlines for 2024 election
Americans who haven't yet registered to vote in the 2024 elections this November yet should sign up soon — the first advance registration deadlines start coming Oct. 6 in some states. Those who wish to register to vote will find that in most states there's more than one way to do so — it's become increasingly simpler and more convenient for people to register or update their registration over the last several years. "The good news is that it's easier to register than ever across the United States," CBS News election law contributor David Becker told "CBS Mornings" in September. All voters can check their registration status by going to vote.gov. In addition to the traditional method of registering in person, many states now have online registration, same-day voter registration and automatic voter registration. Same-day voter registration enables people to vote on the same day that they register during early voting periods and in many states, even on Election Day. About half the states offer automatic voter registration. This means individuals are automatically registered to vote when they go to specific government agencies, like the department of motor vehicles, and obtain a driver's license or ID. Those who wish to opt out of automatic registration may do so. The Center for Election Innovation & Research, which is led by Becker, has more information about registration and deadlines for the 2024 elections. After Hurricane Helene caused widespread damage across South Carolina, the state extended its deadline for voter registration to Oct. 14. Here's a map that shows the registration options in each state: The deadlines for advance voter registration (as opposed to same-day registration) are coming up in some states in early October, with some as late as Election Day. In the map below, you can see the advance deadlines in your state for in-person, mail or online registration: Nearly half the states, plus the District of Columbia, allow same-day registration on Election Day. Among the other variations on this kind of registration, there are also several states that have same-day registration periods that end before Election Day, but also offer same-day registration on Election Day. Here are the states allowing same-day voter registration and their dates for the 2024 election:.