NYC Mayor Eric Adams pleads not guilty to federal bribery charges
NEW YORK -- New York City Mayor Eric Adams pleaded not guilty tofederal bribery, conspiracy and campaign finance chargesat his arraignment Friday. A sprawling 57-page indictmentunsealed Thursday laid out accusations Adams abused his power for nearly a decade, putting the interests of foreign nationals above those of his own constituents. In court, the judge read Adams his rights before he waived a public reading of the indictment and entered his plea. "I am not guilty, your honor," he said to the judge. Adams, who was released on bail, stared straight ahead during the entire proceeding. When he got up to leave, he smiled at a court officer but did not look at anyone in the gallery. He did not speak to reporters waiting outside the courthouse. Instead, he stood beside his lawyer, who addressed the media. Attorney Alex Spiro likened Adams' situation to the case against former New York Lt. Gov. Brian Benjamin, who was charged with bribery and fraud for allegedly taking campaign contributions from a real estate developer in exchange for his influence over state funds. "We all remember the Brian Benjamin case. Similar, shaky theory. That case was dismissed. Same prosecutors, same theory. But the spectacle of this is so exciting to them, that they wanted to bring another one of these cases," Spiro said. Benjaminresignedafter his indictment in April 2022. The charges were droppedeight months later, but a federal appeals courtreinstated themearlier this year.  Adams is New York City's first sitting mayor to be indicted on federal charges. If convicted on all five counts, he faces up to 45 years in prison. "This case isn't even a real case. This is the airline upgrade corruption case," Spiro told reporters, adding, "The entire body of evidence is one staffer. One staffer that says there was a conversation. What you have not heard, is that that staffer has lied, and the government is in possession of that lie." The mayor's attorney said he will be filing a motion to dismiss the case next week, and added, "We expect these charges to be dismissed." The mayor's next court appearance is scheduled for Oct. 2.  Adams left Gracie Mansion and arrived at the courthouse at around 8:45 a.m. Friday. On his way out, he flashed a thumbs-up to reporters gathered outside. The arraignment started at around noon, when the mayor was processed and entered his not guilty plea. Adams has maintained his innocence since the indictment came down and said he was ready to fight the charges in court.  "I follow the rules, I follow the law. I do not do anything that's going to participate in illegal campaign activity," he said ina news conference outside his residenceon Thursday. The indictment accuses the mayor of seeking and accepting improper gifts, like luxury travel and illegal campaign contributions from wealthy foreign businesspeople and at least one Turkish government official since he was Brooklyn borough president. His alleged undisclosed travel dates back to 2016, totaling more than $100,000. "Year after year after year, he kept the public in the dark, he told the public he received no gifts, even though he was secretly being showered with them," said U.S. District Attorney for the Southern District of New York Damian Williams. Prosecutors say illegal campaign contributions came in through straw donors -- people who contribute someone else's money to hide the illegal source. In return for the illicit benefits, Adams is accused of using his influence to pressure the FDNY to open a new high-rise housing Turkey's consulate in Manhattan, despite safety concerns. "Laws that are designed to ensure that officials like him serve the people, not the highest bidder, not a foreign bidder, and certainly not a foreign power," Williams said. The indictment also detailed how the mayor allegedly tried to hide their criminal conduct, saying his campaign fundraiser "called Adams five times" while the FBI was at her door with a search warrant. According to the indictment, she then spoke to FBI agents but "refused to say who paid for her 2021 travel to Turkey." Prosecutors say another staffer agreed to speak to the FBI but then "excused herself to a bathroom and, while there, deleted the encrypted messaging applications she had used to communicate with the mayor." Adams faces growing calls to step down, with many questioning his ability to defend himself and continue to run the city, but he also got some backing from longtime supporters. He has said repeatedly he plans to continue his work as mayor. "Wait to hear our defense before making any judgements," he said Thursday. What comes next for him remains unclear, but as public pressure grows, many are wondering if New York Gov. Kathy Hochul will step in. Under state law, she has the power to remove him from office. In a statement Thursday night, Hochul called it "an extraordinarily difficult day for New York City," adding, "this indictment is the latest in a disturbing pattern of events that has, understandably, contributed to a sense of unease among many New Yorkers." "My focus is on protecting the people of New York and ensuring stability in the City. While I review my options and obligations as the governor of New York, I expect the mayor to take the next few days to review the situation and find an appropriate path forward to ensure the people of New York City are being well-served by their leaders," she said. If the mayor were to resign or be removed, New York City Public Advocate Jumaane Williams would take over on an interim basis. He would then have three days to call for a special election, which would have to be held within 80 days. "As the Public Advocate, my role is to fight for the transparency, accountability, and governance that New Yorkers deserve. In a moment of intense turmoil, I am committed to working with my fellow elected officials and the many thousands of incredibly dedicated public servants to ensure our city continues to operate in any eventuality," the public advocate said in a statement following the indictment.