Mayor Adams indicted following federal investigation
NEW YORK -- New York City Mayor Eric Adams has been indicted following a federal investigation, CBS News New York learned Wednesday night. The U.S. Attorney's Office for the Southern District of New York announcedthe specific chargesThursday, including bribery, wire fraud and conspiracy to solicit a contribution from a foreign national. "Mayor Adams engaged in a long-running conspiracy in which he solicited and knowingly accepted illegal campaign contributions from foreign donors and corporations," U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New YorkDamian Williams said Thursday. "I ask New Yorkers to wait to hear our defense before making any judgments," Adams said in a news conference of his own.  Earlier in the morning, federal agents could be seen parked outside the mayor's home at Gracie Mansion. "Federal agents appeared this morning at Gracie Mansion in an effort to create a spectacle (again) and take Mayor Adams phone (again). He has not been arrested and looks forward to his day in court," Adams' attorney Alex Spiro said in a statement. "They send a dozen agents to pick up a phone when we would have happily turned it in." The indictment comes on the heels of several investigations involving the mayor and members of his administration. The various probes have been playing out over the course of months, starting in November 2023, and heated up with a flurry of subpoenas in recent weeks. In a taped video message sent through his attorney, Adams responded to reports of the indictment on Wednesday night. "My fellow New Yorkers, it is now my belief that the federal government intends to charge me with crimes. If so, these charges will be entirely false, based on lies. But they would not be surprising. I always knew that if I stood my ground for all of you, that I would be a target, and a target I became. "For months, leaks and rumors have been aimed at me in an attempt to undermine my credibility and paint me as guilty. Just this past week, they searched the home of our new police commissioner, looking for documents from 20 years ago just one week after he joined my administration. Enough. I will fight these injustices with every ounce of my strength and my spirit. "If I'm charged, I know I am innocent. I will request immediate trials so the New Yorkers can hear the truth. New Yorkers know my story. They know where I come from. I have been fighting injustice my entire life. That fight has continued as your mayor. Despite our pleas when the federal government did nothing as its broken immigration policies overloaded our shelter system with no relief, I put the people of New York before party and politics. "Now, if I am charged, many may say I should resign because I cannot manage the city while fighting the case. I can also understand everyday New Yorkers will be concerned that I cannot do my job while I face accusations. But I have been facing these lies for months, since I begin to speak out for all of you and their investigation started. Yet the city has continued to improve. Make no mistake, you elected me to lead this city and lead it I will. I humbly ask for your prayers and your patience as we see this through. God bless you, and God bless the city of New York. Thank you." Asked earlier this week if he was going to resign due to the investigations, Adams rejected the idea outright and said he waslooking forward to running for reelectionand eventually being sworn in for a second term. "I'm stepping up, not stepping down," Adams said on Tuesday. "I have a city to run." However, following the reports of the indictment on Wednesday night, many startedcalling for the mayor to resign. New York Gov. Kathy Hochul does have the ability to remove Adams from office, CBS News New York's Marcia Kramer reported, adding there will be pressure on her to do so because he has many positions to fill due to the recent resignations and may have a hard time filling them due to his situation. However, Kramer also reported that Adams believes he has an argument to remain right where he is, because he has been investigated for close to a year and says crime is down, while jobs and tourism are up. A spokesperson for Hochul said the governor is aware of the reports and monitoring the situation, though it would be "premature to comment further until the matter is confirmed by law enforcement." If Adams were to resign or be removed by the governor, New York City Public Advocate Jumaane Williams would take over on an interim basis and would have three days to call for a special election, which would have to be held within 80 days.  A spokesperson for Adams said, "We expect all team members to fully comply with any ongoing inquiry."  Adams campaign fundraising investigation: Federal authorities had been scrutinizing donations to Adams' 2021 mayoral campaign from people connected with the Turkish government, sources told CBS News New York. That investigation started in November, 2023. Federal agents raided the home of Adams' chief fundraiser, Brianna Suggs. Adams had been attending a meeting on the migrant crisis in Washington D.C. at the time of the raid, but came back to New York City when he heard raids on Suggs and others were taking place. That investigation has apparently expanded. People with knowledge of the investigation said a new round of subpoenas delivered to Adams' lawyer in July sought information related to his dealings with Israel, China, Qatar, South Korea and Uzbekistan. Adams said Tuesday that, as mayor, he had only visited Israel and Qatar. At issue in the fundraising investigation: Whether straw donors from Turkey contributed to Adams' campaign, sources said. Reportedly, employees of a Brooklyn construction company allegedly made donations to Adams' campaign. When questioned, however, some of them said they couldn't recall doing so. Investigators have been looking into whether donations were linked to any possible pressure put on the FDNY to approve the opening of a new Turkish consulate in Midtown, despite safety concerns, sources told CBS News New York. The investigation is also looking into whether Adams received free flights and upgrades on Turkish Airlines, sources said. Other investigations: Former NYPD Commissioner Edward Caban resigned after he disclosed that federal agents raided his home and took his phone. That investigation has to do with his twin brother, James Caban, who allegedly worked as a fixer for restaurants and nightclubs that were having trouble with the NYPD, sources told CBS News New York. James Caban allegedly helped restaurants smooth over things like noise complaints and other issues that might warrant NYPD attention. James Caban's lawyer has argued that there is nothing wrong with a former NYPD officer working as a liaison between the NYPD and nightclubs. Another investigation brought federal authorities to the homes of Deputy Mayor for Public Safety Philip Banks III and the Hamilton Heights home of his brother, Schools Chancellor David Banks, and his partner, First Deputy Mayor Sheena Wright. All three had their phones confiscated. Weeks after the raid, David Banksannounced he would retire at the end of the year. He said he previously told Adams about his retirement prior to the raid taking place. Also reportedly involved in that probe is another Banks brother, Terence Banks, who runs a consulting business called the Pearl Alliance. That firm represents various companies that have contracts with New York City agencies worth hundreds of thousands of dollars. Banks is not a registered lobbyist, however. Here's a closer look at who's who in the various investigations.