Harris to skip Al Smith dinner, a traditional presidential campaign stop
Vice President Kamala Harris will skip this year's Al Smith charity dinner in New York, breaking with presidential tradition so she can campaign instead in a battleground state. The dinner benefittingCatholic Charitiestraditionally has been used to promote collegiality and good humor, with presidential candidates from both parties appearing on the same night and trading barbs. A campaign official confirmed to CBS News that Harris will not attend in an effort to maximize her time in battleground states ahead of Election Day. The official added that Harris would welcome the opportunity to attend as president if she is elected in November. The decision was first reported by CNN.  Donald Trump's campaign did not immediately respond to a question about whether he would attend the dinner. His 2016 appearance at the dinner invited boos when many in the audience felt he crossed a line when he called Democrat Hillary Clinton corrupt and claimed she hated Catholics. This year's white-tie gala is scheduled for Oct. 17. Cardinal Timothy Dolan, who plays a prominent role in the dinner, has been highly critical of Democrats, writing a 2018 Wall Street Journal op-ed that carried the headline, "The Democrats Abandon Catholics." The Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner is named for the former New York governor, a Democrat and the first Roman Catholic to be nominated for president by a major party in 1928. He was handily defeated by Herbert Hoover. It raises millions of dollars for Catholic charities and has traditionally shown that those vying to lead the nation can get along, or pretend to, for one night. The event has become a tradition for presidential candidates since Richard Nixon and John F. Kennedy appeared together in 1960. In 1996, the Archdiocese of New York decided not to invite then-President Bill Clinton and his Republican challenger, Bob Dole, reportedly because Clinton vetoed a late-term abortion ban. Trump and then Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden, who is Catholic, both spoke at the fundraiser in 2020, when it was moved online due to concerns about large gatherings spreading COVID-19. Amid the pandemic and economic woes, there was no joking and both candidates instead used their speeches to appeal to Catholic voters. Mr. Biden, who is Catholic, has not attended since he took office.