Democrat LaMonica McIver wins special House election in New Jersey
TRENTON, N.J. — Democratic Newark City Council President LaMonica McIver has defeated Republican small businessman Carmen Bucco in a contest in New Jersey's 10th Congressional District that opened up because of the death of Rep. Donald Payne Jr. in April. McIver will serve out the remainder of Payne's term, which ends in January. She and Bucco will face a rematch on the November ballot for the full term. McIver said in a statement Wednesday that she stands on the "shoulders of giants," naming Payne as chief among them.  She cast ahead to the November election, saying the right to make reproductive health choices was on the ballot as well as whether the economy should benefit the wealthy or "hard working Americans." "I will fight because the purpose of politics and the purpose of our vote is to give the people of our communities and our nation a bold voice," she said. Bucco congratulated McIver on the victory in a statement but said he's looking forward to the rematch in November.  "I am not going anywhere," he said in an email. "We still have a second chance to make district 10 great again!" McIver emerged as the Democratic candidate in a crowded field in the July special election. A member of the city council of New Jersey's biggest city since 2018, she also worked for Montclair Public Schools as a personnel director and plans to focus on affordability, infrastructure, abortion rights and "protecting our democracy," she told The Associated Press earlier this summer.  Bucco describes himself on his campaign website as a small-business owner influenced by his upbringing in the foster system. He lists support for law enforcement and ending corruption as top issues.  The 10th District lies in a heavily Democratic and majority-Black region of northern New Jersey. Republicans are outnumbered by more than 6 to 1. It's been a volatile year for Democrats in New Jersey, where the party dominates state government and the congressional delegation.  Among the developments were the conviction on federal bribery charges of U.S. Sen. Bob Menendez, who has denied the charges, and the demise of the so-called county party line — a system in which local political leaders give their preferred candidates favorable position on the primary ballot. .