Venezuela says 4th American arrested over alleged "plot" against Maduro
Venezuela said Tuesday it had arrested a fourth U.S. citizen over what it claims was a plot to assassinate President Nicol치s Maduro in the aftermath of elections the opposition claims he stole. The American was arrested in Caracas after "taking photos of electrical installations, oil facilities, military units," Interior Minister Diosdado Cabello said. Three other U.S. citizens, two Spaniards and a Czech have also been arrested in Venezuela in recent weeks.  Cabello told the National Assembly the man was "part of the plot against Venezuela, the plot against our country," which he said included a plan to "assassinate President Nicol치s Maduro" and others, including himself. A State Department spokesperson told CBS News Tuesday evening that the White House was "aware of unconfirmed reports" of an arrest of a fourth American, adding that "any claims of U.S. involvement in a plot to overthrow Maduro are categorically false. The United States continues to support a democratic solution to the political crisis in Venezuela." On Saturday, Cabello announced the arrest of the other six foreigners, whom he said worked for intelligence agencies and the Venezuelan opposition. One of the Americans was identified as a U.S. Navy sailordetained in Venezuelaearlier this month. A State Department spokesperson told CBS News in a statement Saturday that the Biden administration could confirm the detention of the sailor. The Navy identified him Monday as Wilbert Joseph Castaneda. Washington, Madrid and Prague, who have denied involvement in any plot against Maduro, on Monday demanded information from Venezuela about their citizens. Maduro said Monday they had all "confessed." Venezuela has been engaged in a war of words with the U.S., which recognized Venezuelan opposition candidate Edmundo Gonz치lez Urrutia as the winner of the election. Washington last week announcednew sanctionsagainst 16 Venezuelan officials, including some from the electoral authority, for impeding "a transparent electoral process" and not publishing accurate results.  Tensions between Caracas and former colonial power Spain rose sharply after Gonz치lez Urrutia, 75,went into exile in Spain a week ago, after being threatened with arrest.