Competing abortion rights measures can appear on Nebraska ballot, high court rules
Competing measures that would expand or restrict abortion rights can appear on the ballot in Nebraska this fall, the state Supreme Court ruled Friday. The Nebraska Supreme Court ruled days after hearing arguments in three lawsuits that sought to keep one or both of the state's competing abortion initiatives off the November ballot.  Organizers for the competing measures each turned in far more than the 123,000 required valid signatures needed to get them on the ballot. One initiative would enshrine in the Nebraska Constitution the right to have an abortion until viability or later to protect the health of the pregnant woman. The other would write into the constitution Nebraska's current 12-week abortion ban, passed by the Legislature in 2023. The ban includes exceptions for rape, incest and the life of the pregnant woman. Two lawsuits — one brought by an Omaha resident and the other by a Nebraska neonatologist who both oppose abortion — argued that the measure seeking to expand abortion rights violates the state's prohibition against addressing more than one subject in a bill or ballot proposal. They said the ballot measure deals with three separate issues: abortion rights until viability, abortion rights after viability to protect the woman's health and whether the state should be allowed to regulate abortion. A similar single-subject argument on an abortion rights ballot measure before the conservative Florida Supreme Court failed earlier this year. A third lawsuit challenged the 12-week ban initiative. That filing argued that if the high court found the abortion rights measure failed the single-subject test, it also had to find that the 12-week ban initiative failed it. The 12-week ban ballot measure would loop in at least six separate subjects to include regulating abortion in the first, second and third trimesters and separate exceptions for rape, incest and the life of the mother, an attorney for that third lawsuit argued. The state's high court has offered mixed results on single-subject law challenges. In 2020, the Nebraska Supreme Court blocked a ballot initiative seeking to legalize medical marijuana after finding that its provisions to allow people to use marijuana and to produce it were separate subjects that violated the state's single-subject rule. But in July, the court ruled that a hybrid bill passed by the Legislature in 2023 combining the 12-week abortion ban with another measure to limit gender-affirming health care for minors does not violate the single-subject rule. That led to a scathing dissent by Justice Lindsey Miller-Lerman, who accused the majority of applying different standards to bills passed by the Legislature and those sought by voter referendum. The court agreed to expedite its hearings and rulings on the lawsuits to eliminate the need for any proceedings at lower courts and to get the issue decided before ballots are printed across the state. The deadline to certify the Nebraska November ballot is Friday. Nebraska will be the first state to carry competing abortion amendments on the same ballot since the U.S. Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade in 2022, effectively ending 50 years of national abortion rights and making abortion a state-by-state issue. But the topic of abortion in general will be on the ballot in nine states across the country this year. Measures to protect access have also qualified to go before voters in Arizona, Colorado, Florida, Maryland, Missouri, Montana, Nevada and South Dakota. New York also has a ballot measure that proponents say would protect abortion rights, though there's a dispute about its impact. A measure is not on the Arkansas ballot, but an attempt to add it is being sought through litigation. Voters in all seven states with an abortion-related ballot measure since the reversal of Roe v. Wade have favored abortion rights. Most Republican-controlled states have implemented abortion bans of some sort since Roe was overturned.