Kamala Harris' policy plans and platform on key issues for the 2024 election
Former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris faced off in theirfirst — and possibly only — debate of the 2024 presidential campaignon Sept. 10, giving Americans the chance to hear what they have to say about some of the most pressing issues facing the country, including the economy, immigration, abortion access, foreign affairs and more. Harris, a latecomer to the race who earned the nomination after President Biden announced he was dropping out, has not announced many policies during the course of her short campaign, but she has released some proposals and has her record as vice president. Here are some key points from the plans she's offered, information about her record and what she's said about some of these subjects. (A similar overview of Trump's positions can be foundhere.) Trump and Harris have competing tax plans. Both nominees' plans would have to be passed by Congress, which has the power of the purse. Here's what Harris has proposed so far:  Harris says she'd address the nation's housing shortage with several initiatives. She promises to build 3 million affordable new homes and rentals by the end of her first term, offering tax breaks to builders who construct homes for first-time home buyers. She's also proposing a $40 billion fund to help local governments find solutions to the low housing stock. And she wants to provide Americans who have paid their rent on time for two years with up to $25,000 in down-payment assistance, with more support for first-generation homeowners. Harris and Trump have opposing views on abortion access, an issue that could be a crucial motivator for voters in November.  Access to in vitro fertilization services became a campaign issue after the Alabama Supreme Court ruled in February that frozen embryos created during the IVF process could be considered children. The decision threatened the availability of IVF services in Alabama and thrust access to fertility treatments into the national conversation, including among the presidential candidates.  Harris has not outlined her climate policy yet, but she is expected to continue to pursue the goals of the 2022 Inflation Reduction Act, which funded energy and climate projects aimed at reducing carbon emissions by 40% by 2030.  Both Harris and Trump have, at times, been critical of Israel's handling of its war against Hamas in Gaza. But neither has threatened to pull support for the ally.  Harris has offered few details about how her China policy would differ from Mr. Biden's. In her Democratic National Convention speech, Harris said "America — not China — wins the competition for the 21st century."  It's unclear whether Harris would seek to renegotiate a new nuclear deal with Iran if she wins the election. During the 2020 campaign, Harris, who was running in a crowded Democratic presidential primary, told the Council on Foreign Relations that she would seek to rejoin the Iran nuclear agreement, "so long as Iran also returned to verifiable compliance." .