The Great Debate: First televised presidential debate held at CBS Chicago 64 years ago
CHICAGO (CBS) -- Former President Donald Trump and Vice President Kamala Harris will go head to head in a presidential debate in Philadelphiaon Tuesday night— continuing a 64-year tradition in television that began at CBS Chicago's old studios.   On Sept. 26, 1960, Vice President Richard M. Nixon and U.S. Sen. John F. Kennedyof Massachusetts met for the first ever televised presidential debate in Studio 1 at the old CBS Chicago broadcast center, at 630 N. McClurg Ct. in the Streeterville section of the Near North Side. Political campaigns were not new to television in 1960. In 1952, campaign aide Roy O. Disney — older brother of Walt Disney — created the "I Like Ike" campaign for Republican candidate Dwight D. Eisenhower just for television. That same year, the Democratic and Republican national conventions — both at the International Amphitheatre in Chicago — were televised.   Also in 1952, Nixon — amid a scandal over campaign contribution ethics — admitted that he had accepted a gift of a cocker spaniel puppy named Checkers. Four years later, Kennedy made remarks at the 1956 DNC — again held at the International Amphitheatre in Chicago.   In 1960, Nixon and Kennedy each won nominations for the top of the Republican and Democratic tickets for president, respectively. While Kennedy was on an upswing when September came around — telling Protestant ministers in Houston that he could serve both his country and his church as a Roman Catholic — Nixon had suffered an injury to his left knee in a limousine while campaigning in North Carolina the month before and ended up in the hospital with septic arthritis.   Congress suspended the "equal time" rule for broadcasting, thus making it so 14 minor-party candidates running for president in 1960 did not need to be granted equal time. The Democrat Kennedy and the Republican Nixon would debate one-on-one, and millions would be watching.   Some anticipated the debate could make or break a candidate's chances in the election.   CBS was selected to handle the first debate at its relatively new Chicago headquarters at 630 N. McClurg Ct. The building had been completed in 1924 as a horse stable for the Chicago Riding Club, and a dozen years later became the Chicago Arena — which offered skating to the public and also hosted figure skating competitions, amateur hockey league games, and the Ice Capades. In addition to its vast ice rink, the Chicago Arena featured a bowling alley, a grill, and a $50,000 Wurlitzer theater pipe organ that was played as accompaniment for the skating.   In 1954, CBS purchased the Chicago Arena building for $1.5 million. The theater organ was sold off, the ice rink was removed, and according to the pamphlet "WBBM Radio Yesterday & Today," original building architect Andrew Rebori developed a new design for the building as a broadcast center.   At the time, the new CBS Chicago building was poised to be the network's largest enclosed studio space outside Hollywood, with over 75,000 square feet. The much larger CBS Broadcast Center on West 57th Street in New York, a former dairy depot that was actually purchased a couple of years before the Chicago building, did not go into use for studio space until 1964. The CBS Chicago broadcast center opened in 1956 — replacing a scattered local operation with studios at the Garrick Theater at 64 W. Randolph St. and the State-Lake Theatre at 190 N. State St. — the latter of which, as it happens, is now and has long been the home of Chicago's ABC 7. The McClurg Court broadcast center later also supplanted CBS offices at the Wrigley Building.    WBBM radio operations were housed on the upper floors, while TV studios for WBBM-TV, CBS Channel 2, were housed on the ground floor.