Feds raid homes of NYPD commissioner, other top NYC officials, sources say
NEW YORK -- The homes of at least four top officials in Mayor Eric Adams' administration, including that of Police Commissioner Edward Caban, were raided by federal authorities Wednesday, sources told CBS News New York. The NYPD said it is aware of an investigation by the U.S. Attorney's Office that's looking into members of the department, though it did not specify which personnel were under investigation. A spokesperson said the department is cooperating with the investigation. Sources told CBS News New York the investigation involves NYPD executives who have been asked to voluntarily surrender their electronic devices. The homes of First Deputy Mayor Sheena Wright and Deputy Mayor Philip Banks were also raided Wednesday morning. FBI agents participated. Wright shares a home with Schools Chancellor David Banks. Philip Banks is David Banks' brother. Sources say the cellphones of Wright and Philip Banks were taken as part of the raids. The Associated Press is also reporting the feds seized electronic devices from the home of Timothy Pearson, a mayoral advisor and former high-ranking NYPD official. Adams spoke with CBS News New York's Marcia Kramer on Thursday afternoon. He seemed cool, calm and collected, and insisted he tells his staff to follow the law and cooperate with investigations. "You know, Marcia, I say over and over again, as a former member of law enforcement, I'm very clear. We follow the rules. We make sure that we cooperate and turn over any information that is needed and it just really would be inappropriate to get in the way of the review while it's taking place," Adams said. "I am not aware of any misdoings and I'm going to, again, follow the rules and I will continue to tell the team to do that. And that's what they have been doing, to my knowledge." "So why do they keep targeting you and members of your administration? I mean, it's like a constant, drip, drip, drip," Kramer asked. "Those are questions I can't answer. I'm going to ... I know what I'm going to do, and that is information that's needed to show that I have always followed the law, we're going to give that information," Adams said. Caban canceled a public event Thursday. As for Schools Chancellor David Banks, he was presiding overthe first day of classes for New York City public schools. "Today is all about the kids of New York City, and that's what we're going to focus on," he said. So far, there has been no official reason given for the raids, though sources familiar with the investigation say it is not believed to be connected to a previous investigation into pricey flight upgrades on international flights to Turkey as part of the corruption investigation into Adams' 2021 campaign. It's the latest sign of law enforcement interest in the Adams administration. Adams' 2021 mayoral campaign is being investigated for corruption, with new subpoenas being issued in July. Adams, himself, was subpoenaed In 2023, the FBI raided the home of Adams' then-fundraiser Brianna Suggs, in an investigation that is believed to be centered around campaign financing. Wright is an attorney, and has served in the Adams administration since 2022, initially as first deputy mayor of strategic initiatives before being named first deputy mayor in 2023. She previously was president and CEO of United Way of New York City, and held the same roles at the Abyssinian Development Corporation. Philip Banks joined the Adams administration as deputy mayor for public safety in 2022. He previously served as chief of department in the NYPD.