Meet the semifinalists for the "CBS Mornings" Mixtape Music Competition
This is a very bright, sun-shiny day for "CBS Mornings." Talented musicians and singers from across the country submitted their covers of Johnny Nash's iconic song "I Can See Clearly Now" for the "CBS Mornings" Mixtape Music Competition. Hundreds of entries came in, showcasing a variety of styles including soul, rock, country, and experimental. But only 14 made the cut. Now it's time for you to help us vote, America! Head tohttps: watch the full cover versions from our semifinalists and choose your favorite. The winner will get to record their song and be featured right on "CBS Mornings." Their cover could even become the anthem for our show's new national promotional campaign. Voting closes on Aug. 13. Here are the semifinalists: Cincinnati, OH This mom of two got her love of gospel music from singing in church as a child. After her mom passed away, Andrea began posting her cover songs online. Coatesville, PA Brian first learned violin at nine years old. The husband and father now mixes his vocals and beatboxing with violin, guitar, and keyboard. New Haven, CT Music has always been a big part of Chandler's life, starting with family song nights as a child. She plays multiple instruments, including the violin, classical guitar, and ukulele. Goose Creek, SC Delia is a retired Veterans Affairs therapist who uses her music therapy training to help veterans by providing free guitar lessons. She also performs with a Native American outreach group. Los Angeles, CA Dennis (guitar) and fiancé Azmera (vocals, drums) met as Harvard graduate students. Azmera's brother Ulu (vocals) and mom Tamara (vocals) join their family band. Nashville, TN This pop singer-songwriter started performing as a teen in an after-school music program. Dylan says his cover, in his live-looping style, embodies the joyful feeling of new beginnings. Atlanta, GA Singer-songwriter Forbes has a passion for country and electronic dance music. She says if her music finds a way to touch someone's soul and make them smile, then her purpose is fulfilled. Nashua, NH Julia is a recent graduate of UMass Lowell with a BA in Music Performance. Now a music teacher, she credits singing and songwriting with helping her cope with anxiety. Nashville, TN Frontwoman Kyndle started singing in her family's worship band at church. She and her husband, who is a songwriter, moved to Nashville to chase their dreams. Brooklyn, NY Naiomi attended NYU Tisch School of the Arts for drama and musical theater. She says she loves soulful funky music that makes you get up and dance. Hurricane, UT Noah has dreamed of being a music artist ever since his dad taught him the drums at just seven years old. He now plays multiple instruments to create a full band sound all by himself. Philadelphia, PA Raimundo (aka RaiSan Sings) is a jazz vocalist and composer. His love of music began in middle school choir. The first generation Angolan-American taught music in Africa for nearly a decade. Chino Hills, CA Ryan's cover reflects his love of pop and R&B music. He says with both his parents battling cancer, he believes in the power of music and hopes his song helps people feel joy. Maplewood, NJ & Westchester, NY Bob Ziegler (vocals), Jason Taylor (drums), and brothers Cliff Rubin (bass) and Jon Rubin (guitar) formed their band during a rooftop jam session in New York City. Now all married with children, they've rocked together for 20 years.