Enter the "CBS Mornings" Mixtape Music Competition
Calling all singers and musicians: If you're looking for your big break, consider entering the "CBS Mornings" Mixtape Music Competition starting Wednesday. This summer, "CBS Mornings" is inviting emerging artists to submit a video of themselves singing a cover of the Johnny Nash 1972 hit "I Can See Clearly Now." The song has been covered by dozens of artists over the years – and now it's your turn! Unsigned singers and musicians can record a 30 to 60-second video of their cover of the song "I Can See Clearly Now" with vocals (and instrumentals if you have them). Go tomixtape.cbsnews.comto upload your original version and read the full rules and guidelines. Here are a few helpful tips before recording: Don't wait! You only have from Wednesday, June 26, 2024, through Tuesday, July 9, 2024, to submit your video. Be creative and make the song your own – preferably an upbeat, energetic cover in any genre that might motivate someone to kickstart their day. Submissions will be ranked by a judging panel based on the following criteria: There will be up to 15 semifinalists who will be grouped by teams, led by "CBS Mornings" co-anchors: Team Gayle, Team Nate and Team Tony. Voting will be live on Tuesday, Aug. 6, 2024, and will be open for one week. Viewers will get to vote for their favorite submission online and on Instagram. Spread the word about your submission on social media using the hashtag #CBSMorningsContest and tag @CBSMornings. The three top-voted finalists will be featured on "CBS Mornings." The winner of the competition will receive a trip to New York City, where they will record their cover version of "I Can See Clearly Now," and be featured on "CBS Mornings."A video of the winner performing "I Can See Clearly Now" will be posted across CBS News digital and social platforms. The winner could also be featured in a new national promotional campaign for the show. Unsigned singers and musicians have until July 9 to submit their entries. Do you have what it takes to win? Take a chance and enter the singing competition today.