Donald Sutherland, star of "M*A*S*H," "Hunger Games," dies at 88
Donald Sutherland, a multi-generational actor who starred in "M*A*S*H," "Klute," "Animal House," "Hunger Games" and more, has died. He was 88.  His death was confirmed on social media by his son Kiefer Sutherland, a well-known actor himself who starred in "24"and "Designated Survivor,"on Thursday. A talent agency that represents Sutherland also confirmed his death to CBS News. "With a heavy heart, I tell you that my father, Donald Sutherland, has passed away," Kiefer Sutherlandsaid on X. "I personally think one of the most important actors in the history of film. Never daunted by a role, good, bad or ugly. He loved what he did and did what he loved, and one can never ask for more than that. A life well lived."  Donald Sutherland auditioned for his first role more than 50 years ago,he toldAnderson Cooper during a 2017 interview on "60 Minutes." He went on toappear in more than 150 filmsand television shows, and has been called one of the greatest actors to never be nominated for an Oscar — despite acclaimed performances in films like "Ordinary People," which won best picture. In 2017, the Academy of Motion Pictures Arts & Sciences presented Sutherland with an honorary Oscar at its Governors Awards ceremony. One of Canada's best-known actors, Sutherland was born in New Brunswick in 1935. After graduating with degrees in engineering and drama from the Unversity of Toronto, he moved to London to start his acting career. He had small roles in Italian and British films, his official Oscar biography said, before making his feature film debut in the 1964 movie "Castle of the Living Dead." His breakthrough role as Vernon Pinkley in the 1967 film "The Dirty Dozen" catapulted Sutherland to his first starring role in the hit film "M*A*S*H." He delivered many other notable performances over the years, both in dramatic roles like his memorable turn in Oliver Stone's "JFK" and in comedies like "The Con Artist." He won an Emmy for best supporting actor for his role in HBO's "Citizen X," in 1995, and was nominated for nine Golden Globes during his long career, winning two. "There is more challenge in character roles," Sutherland said in a 1970 interview with The Washington Post. "There's longevity. A good character actor can show a different face in every film and not bore the public." The Associated Press contributed reporting.