Kevin Costner on his saga, "Horizon," and a possible return to "Yellowstone"
When Frank Sinatra sang "My Way," he could've been singing about Kevin Costner. The Oscar-winning actor-director is at work on his most ambitious project to date – a four-part saga of the American West. And just like Ol' Blue Eyes, Costner is doing it his way. "Horizon: An American Saga" is spectacular in every sense. There are four parts, each one feature-length. And Costner says he put his own money – $38 million – into the project (so far). And you can practically see where all the money goes, especially if you happen by one of Costner's shooting locations, like the one he showed "Sunday Morning" outside of Moab, Utah. Around here, it's not so much a movie set as a time capsule. Every detail is accurate down to the doorknobs. "You want to create an environment that's authentic," he said.  The story is authentic, too, about the lure of the Old West, and the tragedy of the people who lived here first. Costner said, "These towns, they weren't like mushrooms, they didn't just pop up. They were fought for. This land was contested, and it was always an ugly finish for the Native Americans, always. And so, those are themes that, while I'm embarrassed by that, kind of ashamed of how it went down, I'm also not afraid to talk about it." He's already finished shooting parts one and two, and is currently filming part three, even before part one has opened. So, how is he? "I'm okay. I'm like a wagon headed West, too. I've just run into everything that you can imagine. I have to hold onto the rope, 'cause I got this pact with the audience that I'm gonna give them something. … I want 'em to go West." To watch a trailer for *Horizon: An American Saga," click on the video player below: Costner's own story is pretty epic as well. His directorial debut was 1990's "Dances With Wolves," and he had to put his own money into that one, too. When it premiered, The New Yorker film critic Pauline Kael called it "childishly naïve," but Costner had the last laugh. The film won best picture, and Costner took home best director as well. Costner's made other big movies, including "Bull Durham," "Field of Dreams," "The Untouchables," and "The Bodyguard." But it seems he's always felt comfortable in a cowboy hat.