Nathan's Hot Dog Eating Contest 2024 crowns new champion
NEW YORK - It's the dawn of a new era at theNathan's Famous Hot Dog Eating Contest. Patrick Bertoletti, of Chicago, won the men's division with 58 hot dogs and buns. "I'm in the greatest country in the world, the greatest eating contest in the world and it's perfect, perfection," Bertoletti said. For the first time in years, the men's competitionwas wide open, withJoey Chestnut not competing.  The competition was tight from the start in Chestnut's absence. Bertoletti, the #9 ranked eater in the world according to Major League Eating, jumped out to an early lead, followed closely by Geoffrey Esper of Oxford, Massachusetts and Nick Wehry of Tampa, Florida. In the middle of the contest, James Webb of Australia briefly took the lead. Bertoletti came rallying back and held onto the lead until the end. Esper came in second with 53. Webb came in third with 52. Check out the complete list of male and female competitors.   Chestnut, the 16-time champion, did not appear this year because of his partnership with a rival company that makes plant-based hot dogs. He appeared instead this year at Fort Bliss in Texas, where he was set to compete against four service members.   Chestnut holds the all-time record, which he set in 2021 by eating 76 hot dogs and buns. Miki Sudo set a new record in the women's division at the2024 Nathan's Famous Hot Dog Eating Contestwith 51 hot dogs and buns. Sudo, 38, has won every year since 2014 except 2021 - she sat that year out due to pregnancy. Her personal best had previously been 48.5 hot dogs and buns, which she shattered this year with 51. "I think what this means for the women's contest is that, first of all, our personal bests are just gonna keep going up, the record's gonna keep increasing. After 10 years, I still have more to give, and you're not done with me just yet," she said. Sudo successfully defended her title for the tenth time. As Major League Eating's top-ranked female eater in the world, Sudo fended off a stiff challenge from Mayoi Ebihara of Japan, who ate 37.  Sudo thanked Ebihara for "pushing me so much." Sudo said she was "getting emotional" and "really wanted to win." Sudo is married to fellow competitor Nicholas Wehry. With 51, she has now bested his total, which is 48. Michelle Lesco came in third in the women's division with 23 hot dogs and buns. Thousands of spectators attended the annual spectacle at Nathan's Famous flagship restaurant at Surf and Stillwell Avenues. The show also included dance and music performances.  The Fourth of July tradition dates back to 1916. In addition to winning the coveted Mustard Yellow Belt, there's a $20,000 cash prize. At Thursday's event, Eric "Badlands" Booker set a new record in the Nathan's lemonade chugging competition, consuming a gallon in 21 seconds. And, as per tradition, Nathan's Famous is donating 100,000 hot dogs to the Food Bank for New York City.