Sean "Diddy" Combs charged with sex trafficking, ordered held without bail
Sean "Diddy" Combswas ordered held without bail Tuesday after he was charged with sex trafficking, racketeering conspiracy and transportation to engage in prostitution. Combs pleaded not guilty to the charges in federal court in New York City. U.S. Magistrate Judge Robyn Tarnofsky ordered Combs held after hearing from prosecutors and Combs' legal team late Tuesday afternoon. Marc Agnifilo, an attorney for Combs,appealed the decisionWednesday and lost. Prosecutors sought detention for Combs, arguing that he "poses an ongoing and significant danger to the community, has repeatedly engaged in obstructive conduct, and presents a serious risk of flight," while his lawyers asked that he be released on bond. Following Tuesday's hearing, Agnifilo told reporters outside the federal courthouse in lower Manhattan that Combs didn't do what prosecutors alleged and he was going to fight the charges to the end. "He's been looking forward to this day," Agnifilo said. "He's been looking forward to clearing his name, and he's going to clear his name." The charges were revealed in an indictment unsealed Tuesday morning after the hip-hop mogul     was taken into custody by federal authorities in New York the night before, multiple law enforcement sources told CBS News, in connection with an ongoing investigation by Homeland Security Investigations. In the indictment, prosecutors allege that since 2008 Combs has been part of a criminal organization that engaged in or attempted to engage in sex trafficking, forced labor, kidnapping, arson, bribery, obstruction of justice and other offenses. U.S. Attorney Damian Williams, of the Southern District of New York, said during a news conference that there were multiple victims in the case, but he didn't provide a specific number and he urged others to come forward to authorities. Combs is accused of assaulting women on numerous occasions starting in 2009 and continuing for years, according to the indictment. "The indictment alleges that between at least 2008 and the present, Combs abused, threatened and coerced victims to fulfill his sexual desires, protect his reputation and conceal his conduct," Williams told reporters Tuesday. "As alleged in the indictment, to carry out this conduct, Sean Combs led and participated in a racketeering conspiracy that used the business empire he controlled to carry out criminal activity." CBS News legal contributor Jessica Levinson said Combs could face decades in prison if he's convicted of the charges. She also said there's a possibility the case might not go to trial. "Most cases do not go to trial," she said. "Most cases do result in a plea deal, and we can expect that in the coming days and weeks and likely months, Sean Combs' attorney and the federal prosecutors will potentially try and find some meeting of minds about a plea deal, but I think it's hard to escape the idea that that plea deal will have to include some prison time." According to the indictment, Combs "manipulated women to participate in highly orchestrated performances of sexual activity with male commercial sex workers." Combs also allegedly arranged for women and commercial sex workers to be flown to him. Combs "ensured participation from the women by, among other things, obtaining and distributing narcotics to them, controlling their careers, leveraging his financial support and threatening to cut off the same, and using intimidation and violence," the indictment alleges. Williams said the investigation into Combs was ongoing and that additional charges weren't off the table. He also said others could face charges in the case. "This office is determined to investigate and prosecute anyone who engages in sex trafficking, no matter how powerful or wealthy or famous you may be," Williams said. The indictment refers to an incident caught on hotel security cameras in 2016. CNN aired the footage earlier this year, which appears toshow Combs attacking the singer Cassie, whose legal name is Casandra Ventura, in a Los Angeles hotel hallway. In May,Combs apologizedfor the incident, saying his behavior was "inexcusable" and that he took "full responsibility" for his actions. According to the indictment, Combs attempted to bribe a hotel security staff member who intervened in the incident to keep them quiet. Combs Indictment by CBSNews.com Combs allegedly referred to the incidents as "Freak Offs," according to the indictment. Prosecutors said Combs directed these "Freak Offs," often recorded them and distributed controlled substances to the victims, which helped make them obedient and compliant. "He used the embarrassing and sensitive recordings he made of the 'Freak Offs' as collateral against the victims, and the indictment alleges that he maintained control over the victims in several ways, including by giving them drugs, by giving and threatening to take away financial support or housing, by promising them career opportunities, by monitoring their whereabouts and even by dictating their physical appearance," Williams said. The victims didn't believe that they could refuse Combs "without risking their security or facing more abuse," Williams said. Prosecutors also accused Combs of carrying or brandishing guns to intimidate and threaten victims and witnesses. Williams said Homeland Security Investigations agents who raidedCombs' homes in Los Angeles and Miami in Marchfound firearms and ammunition, including three defaced AR-15s and a large-capacity drum magazine. William Walker, the acting special agent in charge of the New York field office of Homeland Security Investigations, commended those who came forward to authorities. "Today, we shatter any false notion of impunity as we uncover the defendant's alleged pattern of manipulation, exploitation, and outright abuse," Walker said in a statement Tuesday. "Make no mistake: we are here today only because of the unwavering strength of victims and witnesses who have already endured unspeakable hardships." Agnifilo issued a statement Monday night following reports of Combs' arrest. "We are disappointed with the decision to pursue what we believe is an unjust prosecution of Mr. Combs by the U.S. Attorney's Office," Agnifilo said. He described Combs as "a music icon, self-made entrepreneur, loving family man, and proven philanthropist," and said, "He is an imperfect person but he Is not a criminal." Agnifilo said Combs "has been nothing but cooperative with this investigation and he voluntarily relocated to New York last week in anticipation of these charges. Please reserve your judgment until you have all the facts. These are the acts of an innocent man with nothing to hide, and he looks forward to clearing his name in court." The unsealed indictment lists the case as: UNITED STATES OF AMERICAV.SEAN COMBS,a/k/a "Puff Daddy,"a/k/a "P. Diddy,"a/k/a "Diddy,"a/k/a "PD,"a/k/a "Love,"Defendant. Combs has faced a number oflawsuits in recent months involving allegations of sexual misconduct, abuse and violence. Combs and his representatives have denied all the accusations. In November 2023, Ventura fileda lawsuit accusing Combs of rape and abuse during their relationship; he denied the accusations. They reached a settlement the following day.