Beyoncé shut out of Country Music Award nominations
The 2024 Country Music Awards nominations are out — and Beyoncé's name is nowhere to be found on the list of nominees. The pop icon made her foray into country music in March of this year with the release of "Cowboy Carter." The 27-track album, featuring fan favorites "Texas Hold 'Em" and "16 Carriages,"broke streaming records upon its release, becoming Spotify's most-streamed album in a single day in 2024 and earning the title of most first-day streams of a country album by a female artist on Amazon Music. According to the CMA website, the nominees and winners of the annual award show are determined by the Country Music Association, which consists of 6,000 industry professional members. Shaboozey, who is featured in two tracks on "Cowboy Carter," posted on his X account after the nominations were announced, writing: "That goes without saying. Thank you @Beyonce for opening a door for us, starting a conversation, and giving us one of the most innovative country albums of all time!" Shaboozey received nominations for this year's Country Music Music Awards, including Single of the Year and New Artist of the Year. Other artists who racked up nominations include Morgan Wallen, Cody Johnson, Chris Stapleton and Lainey Wilson. Wallen led the pack with seven total nominations. "The Voice" alum made headlines in April after getting arrested for allegedly throwing a chair from a bar rooftop in Nashville. He received a sharp rebuke from the music industry in 2021 after a video surfaced of him shouting a racial slur. This isn't the first time Beyoncé has been snubbed in the eyes of her fans and closest supporters. In February, Beyoncé's husband Jay-Z publicly called out the Grammys after her album "Renaissance" lost out on the album of the year award to Harry Styles' "Harry's House." "I don't want to embarrass this young lady, but she has more Grammys than anyone and never won album of the year. So even by your own metrics, that doesn't work," Jay-Z said during his acceptance speech for the Dr. Dre Global Impact Award. Beyoncé holds the record as the artist with the most Grammy wins, with 32 total. The CMAs will air on Nov. 20 on ABC. Here's the full list of nominees from the CMA website. Entertainer Of The Year Single Of The Year Album Of The Year Song of the Year Female Vocalist of the Year Male Vocalist Of The Year Vocal Group Of The Year Vocal Duo Of The Year Musical Event Of The Year Musician Of The Year Music Video Of The Year New Artist Of The Year.