Sheriff's deputy allegedly stalked, killed by her father: "Unforgivable"
Prosecutors charged a Utah man with murder Friday, alleging he stalked and killed his adult daughter, a Salt Lake City sheriff's deputy, and then allegedly texted his brother that he had committed an "unforgivable sin." Hector Ramon Martinez-Ayala, 54, of Tooele, confessed in a text message to his brother of making "a big mistake" before fleeing the country and using his daughter's bank card to withdraw money, prosecutors said in court documents. The victim was Marbella Martinez, 25, said Tooele Police spokesman Colbey Bentley. Martinez had started working as a corrections officer with the Salt Lake County Sheriff's Office in January. The department had memorialized her in a Facebook post Thursday, noting her death was being investigated as "suspicious" by Tooele police. She had lived with her father in Tooele, west of Salt Lake City, until her father's escalating series of obsessive texting, surveillance and stalking drove her to move into a hotel for a few days, according to court documents. Charging documents state that in February, Martinez found a bag of her items including used feminine hygiene supplies in her father's room, CBS affiliate KUTV reported. The charges alleged her the stalking behavior had gone on for months, and that the "text messages from the defendant to the victim are more of the nature of a jealous lover than a father." Martinez also found a bag of her underwear in his room, prosecutors said. Then, in mid-July he placed a tracking device on her vehicle while she was out of the country and later used it to find her and a romantic interest out by a hiking area, according to the charges. When she returned to their house on the morning of July 31, her father strangled her, investigators said.  "Any video after [Hector's] arrival at 2:17 pm July 31, 2024 was deleted or never existed because of the disabling of the cameras after his arrival," charging documents state, according to KUTV. But Martinez-Ayala left plenty of digital footprints, including location data on his phone and his daughter's phone, as well as a text message to his brother that afternoon, according to investigators. "My brother, you know much I love you, I made a big mistake, an unforgivable sin, now I'm too scared and I don't know what to do. I think I will never come back," the message said, according to the charging documents. He flew to California, then Texas, before his cell records ceased, prosecutors said. He was then filmed passing through customs in an undisclosed country where he used his brother's identification. Martinez's body was found on Aug. 1 in her bedroom after police were called to do a welfare check. Her phone was later found on the side of I-80 Eastbound, KUTV reported. In addition to murder, Martinez-Ayala is charged with felonies related to obstruction of justice, stealing a bank card, and stalking, as well as misdemeanor identity theft. In the days leading up to her murder, Martinez-Ayala reportedly stole his daughter's credit card and made two separate cash withdrawals of $500 each, KUTV reported.