Dallas police officer Darron Burks "executed" in targeted attack, chief says
DALLAS –Dallas Police Chief Eddie Garcia says Officer Darron Burks, who was fatally shot late Thursday, was the victim of a targeted attack rather than an ambush.     "Officer Burks was executed," Garcia said during a 5 p.m. Friday news conference."... Our officers were targeted for nothing more than the uniform they wear and for the brave and honorable job that they do." Burks, 46, was killed in a shooting in Oak Cliff, and two other responding officers were injured late Thursday night, Dallas police said. Police responded to an officer-in-distress call in the 900 block of E. Ledbetter Drive just after 10 p.m. Thursday. Officers found one officer - later identified as Burks - shot in a patrol vehicle, a spokesperson for the Dallas Police Department, Kristin Lowman, said in a press conference early Friday morning. Garcia said the suspect, 30-year-old Corey Cobb-Bey, approached Burks while he was waiting in a parking lot between calls. After a brief conversation, Cobb-Bey pulled out a gun and "executed" Burks. Police dispatch noticed a sound from Burks' radio and immediately sent help, Garcia said. Cobb-Bey shot at responding officers, who later shot and killed him, Garcia said. Two shotguns, a .22-caliber handgun, and a 9-millimeter handgun were recovered from two scenes, the chief said. Three days ago, Cobb-Bey approached an unmarked unit and questioned that officer. One day ago, Cobb-Bey posted on social media that an event was happening Friday, Garcia said. All three officers were taken to local hospitals. Burks, who joined the force recently after teaching math for about 17 years, was pronounced dead. One officer was in critical condition and the third was in stable condition, Lowman said. According to a CBS News Texas photojournalist at the hospital, DPD chaplains said one of the officers, a man, has superficial wounds, is awake, "in good spirits" and could be released Friday. The other officer who was shot, a woman, has more serious injuries but are non-life threatening. Cobb-Bey then fled from the shooting scene. Dallas police officers pursued the suspect and the chase ended in the 1000 block of Stemmons Freeway in Lewisville, about 40 miles from the original scene. This portion of I-35E was shut down for about seven hours. Dallas police said the suspect got out of the vehicle with a "long gun" before officers shot at the suspect killing him. Lewisville police said Dallas officers led the chase on northbound I-35 and no Lewisville officers were involved. CBS News Texas crews on the scene at Baylor University Medical Center and Methodist Dallas Medical Center in Dallas overnight said both had a heavy police presence. A CBS News Texas photojournalist at Methodist Dallas Medical Center said officers were lining up at the entrance in a salute. Officers departed from the hospital in a processional honoring the fallen officer at 4 a.m. Friday. Garcia was not at the press conference Friday morning but onsocial media said he had "No words." Dallas Mayor Eric Johnson released a statement Friday morning: "Dallas has lost a hero. We all grieve with the officer's family today, and we pray for a full and swift recovery for the two officers who were wounded. "This is devastating. In Dallas, we put public safety first. We stand up to violent criminals. We ask our police officers to do dangerous work so the rest of us can sleep peacefully. These dedicated public servants do so with grace, honor, respect, humility and extraordinary courage. And this attack on three of our protectors is nothing short of an attack on our city, our families, and our way of life. We must continue their work to stop violence in our communities. We must never forget their sacrifice. And we must take the time to come together and lift each other up as we mourn our fallen." DPD said flags at all city facilities will be flown at half-staff in memory of the slain officer.