Inmate sentenced in prison killing of infamous gangster "Whitey" Bulger
An inmate has been sentenced for his role in the deadly bludgeoning of infamous Boston gangsterJames "Whitey" Bulgerin a West Virginia federal prison in 2018. The inmate, Paul J. DeCologero, was sentenced to more than four years imprisonment after pleading guilty to an assault charge. DeCologero faced a maximum sentence of 10 years in prison. Prosecutors initially had said DeCologero and inmate Fotios "Freddy" Geas used a lock attached to a belt to repeatedly hit the 89-year-old Bulger in the head hours after he arrived at troubled USP Hazelton from another lockup in Florida, while another man, Sean McKinnon, served as a lookout. But on Thursday, they said that DeCologero had only served as a lookout and had not physically assaulted Bulger. Geas faces a hearing on Sept. 6. He has been charged with murder and conspiracy to commit first-degree murder, which carries up to a life sentence. Last year the Justice Department said it would not seek the death sentence for the pair. McKinnon was sentenced only to time served after pleading guilty in June to a charge of lying to federal agents about his role in the murder. McKinnon got credit for spending 22 months in custody after his 2022 indictment, was given no additional prison time and was returned to Florida to finish his supervised release. Unlike DeCologero, a Massachusetts gangster, and Geas, a onetime Mafia hitman, McKinnon was not incarcerated at the time of Bulger's killing. He had been on federal supervised release after previously serving prison time for stealing guns from a firearms dealer when he was arrested again on charges related to Bulger's death. All three men were originally charged with conspiracy to commit first-degree murder, which carries a maximum penalty of life in prison if convicted, with DeColgero and Geas facing additional murder charges and McKinnon facing the extra count for allegedly making false statements to an FBI agent. Plea deals for the three of them were disclosed May 13. Geas and DeCologero were identified as suspects shortly after Bulger's death, but they remained uncharged for years as the investigation dragged on. The three men were indicted in 2022 on criminal charges linked to the murder. According to court records, inmates found out ahead of time that Bulger would be arriving. DeCologero and Geas spent about seven minutes in Bulger's cell during the attack. After Bulger's death, DeCologero told a witness, who was another inmate in the prison, that Bulger was a "snitch" and said that they intended to kill him when he arrived at their unit, prosecutors said. DeCologero was also the one who said, in conversation with another inmate witness, that he and Geas had used a belt with a lock attached to it to beat Bulger to death. After the killing, experts criticized Bulger's transfer to Hazelton, where workers had already been sounding the alarm about violence and understaffing, and his placement in the general population instead of more protective housing. A Justice Department inspector general investigation found in 2022 that the killing was the result of multiple layers of management failures, widespread incompetence and flawed policies at the federal Bureau of Prisons. The inspector general found no evidence of "malicious intent" by any bureau employees but said a series of bureaucratic blunders left Bulger at the mercy of rival gangsters. In July, the U.S. Senate passed legislation to overhaul oversight and bring greater transparency to the Bureau of Prisons following reporting from The Associated Press that exposed systemic corruption in the federal prison system and increased congressional scrutiny. Bulger, who ran the largely Irish mob in Boston in the 1970s and '80s, was also an FBI informant who provided the agency with information on the main rival to his gang. He became one of the nation's most wanted fugitives after fleeing Boston in 1994, thanks to a tip from his FBI handler that he was about to be indicted. He was captured at age 81 after more than 16 years on the run. Bulger was convicted in 2013 in a string of 11 killings and dozens of other gangland crimes, many of them committed while he was said to be an FBI informant. DeCologero, who was in a gang led by his uncle, was convicted of buying heroin that was used to try to kill a teenage girl because his uncle feared she would betray the crew to police. After the heroin did not kill her, another man broke her neck, dismembered her body and buried her remains in the woods, court records say. DeCologero was sentenced in 2006 to 25 years in prison.