2 women and a boy killed in Greater Grand Crossing shooting
CHICAGO (CBS) — Two women and a child were killed, and two other children were critically hurt after a mass shooting in the Greater Grand Crossing neighborhood Thursday morning, according to Chicago police. Deputy Chief Don Jerome said around 6:15 a.m., officers responded to an alert of shots fired in the 7100 block of South Woodlawn Avenue, where they found five people shot. Two cars pulled into the area. Several people got out and fired shots from a rifle and handgun at the home. The shooters fled the scene in an unknown direction, and no one is in custody. The victims were two women, identified by the family as Capri Edwards, 24, Nakeeshia Strong, 45, and a 7-year-old boy who died. Two other boys, ages 5 and 8, were injured. They all had gunshot wounds and were given first aid by the officers. Strong died at the scene. Edwards was taken to the University of Chicago Medical Center, where she died. All three children were taken to Comer Children's Hospital, initially reported in critical condition. Later on Thursday, Chicago police said one of the 8-year-old boys had died. The Cook County Medical Examiner's Office had not identified the 8-year-old boy who died as of Thursday night. Markita Scott, Edwards' mother, told CBS News Chicago that her daughter died trying to save her children. Scott said Edwards was not only her daughter but also her best friend. "She shielded her babies so that he wouldn't get hit," Scott said. "So she really died to save her children." Scott described Strong as a mother, grandmother, aunt, and a very loving person. "I'm just numb," Scott said. "I just want somebody to come forward with some kind of information so [there's] justice for my daughter." Police said they were investigating into the possibility that the shooting stemmed from a personal dispute. One neighbor said he heard the shots and ran to his window. "Thought it was fireworks, it wasn't fireworks. Two people jumping off the porch they had masks on so I couldn't even see no face they took off and they went right. They went straight down. I go to run back in the house to get away from that," he said. Ald. Desmon Yancy (5th) called for an end to the violence and says he prays it doesn't happen again. "This senseless violence has to stop. Personal conflict and guns its become a bad combination. You know, the summer is just getting started. I don't want to stand in front of another group of microphones and have another discussion about the pain that's causing our communities," Yancy said. Area detectives are investigating the shooting. Anyone with information can submit an anonymous tip to CPDTip.com.