Justin Timberlake arrested for DWI on Long Island
SAG HARBOR, N.Y. -- Singer Justin Timberlake was arrested early Tuesday on Long Island, Sag Harbor police said. The pop star was charged with driving while intoxicated after allegedly driving through a stop sign. According to court documents, Timberlake was stopped at 12:37 a.m. after he drove through the sign at Madison Street and Jermain Avenue in Sag Harbor. An officer allegedly spotted Timberlake driving a gray BMW through the stop sign and then failing to keep to the right side of the road. Surveillance footage, captured by a camera operated by Hamptons.com, shows Timberlake driving through Sag Harbor shortly before he was pulled over. The officer said he was "in an intoxicated condition" and that "his eyes were bloodshot and glassy, a strong odor of an alcoholic beverage was emanating from his breath," and he "performed poorly on all standard field sobriety tests." "I had one martini and I followed my friends home," Timberlake allegedly told the officer. Documents reveal he refused a breath test three times. He was arraigned at around 9:30 a.m. Tuesday at Sag Harbor Village Justice Court and released on his own recognizance. His next appearance will be a virtual one on July 26, according to court officials. "I look forward to vigorously defending Mr. Timberlake on these allegations. I will have a lot to say at the appropriate time but am currently awaiting full discovery from the District Attorney's office," Timberlake's attorney Edward Burke, Jr. said. Sag Harbor is located about 100 miles from New York City and is part of the Hamptons. It's a celebrity hot spot. DeAngelis ran into singer Billy Joel there Tuesday, and asked about Timberlake's arrest. "Judge not, lest ye be judged," Joel said. Timberlake's arrest was the talk of the village Tuesday. "No one's infallible, but I'm disappointed that he would get behind the wheel and drive in this little town and not worry about the consequences," Bridgehampton resident Audrey Goodrich said. "In today's day and age, with technology and Uber, and especially someone like Justin with unlimited resources, there's no excuse to get behind the wheel," Sam Pezz said. "Hopefully people will think twice now, especially in this town," Sag Harbor resident David Spon said. "I was surprised he would be driving his own car, in one respect. And everyone really has to take accountability for his own actions," one person said. Timberlake, 43, is on his global "Forget Tomorrow" tour in support of his sixth album "Everything I Thought It Was." He has upcoming shows in Chicago, New York City, Boston and Baltimore, among other locations in the U.S., before taking the tour international. The Tennessee native and member of the group NSYNC is one of the best-selling music artists in the world. He was formerly a Disney Mouseketeer. After NSYNC, he launched a solo music career, as well as acting in films. He appeared in "The Social Network" and "Friends With Benefits," among others. The acclaimed performer has racked up 10 Grammy awards, and four Emmys.