"Rogue" policewoman accused of murdering 6 people
A South African policewoman appeared in court Friday on allegations of murdering six people for insurance payouts worth at least 10 million rand ($570,000) in killings that started in 2019. The 43-year-old sergeant stood in the dock of a court in Polokwane, about 190 miles northeast of Johannesburg, with her face entirely covered by a hoodie and mask until she was told by the court to show herself. Rachel Kutumela was arrested Thursday while on duty at a police station in the small town of Senwabarwana about 55 miles from Polokwane, police said in a statement. "Her victims were known to her and were from destitute and disadvantaged background and some were disabled or mentally challenged," the statement said. Kutumela is accused of six murders and of claiming at least 10 million rand from funeral cost insurance and life policies that she had taken out on behalf of her victims, it said. "The incidents began in 2019 when the insured persons would be found dead and their bodies dumped in different areas," the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) said. The body of one man, who was disabled, was recovered from a dam while a woman was discovered burned to death in a shack, the authority said. "This is a premeditated case," NPA provincial spokeswoman Mashudu Malabi Dzhangi told local broadcaster ENCA outside the court, which postponed the case to October 18 for a bail hearing. Prosecutors said they expected more arrests. In a statement, Minister of Police Senzo Mchunu commended police "for their tireless and meticulous work in bringing this rogue officer to justice."  "The nature of these crimes is deeply disturbing, with the victims meeting their ends in various violent ways," Mchunu said. "Such cruelty and disregard for human life is utterly reprehensible, and it is all the more shocking when perpetrated by someone sworn to uphold the law and protect the innocent." In 2021, South Africans were captivated by a similar case where former police officer Rosemary Ndlovu was sentenced to life in prison for murdering five relatives and a boyfriend to cash in on insurance claims. She was finally caught after someone she hired to kill her sister went to the police, the BBC reported.