Man charged in 1985 killing of college student who was found decapitated
A western Wisconsin man has been charged in the 1985 killing of a college student whose decapitated body was found days after she vanished, authorities said Tuesday. Michael Raymond Popp of Tomah was arrested Monday on one count of first-degree murder in the slaying of 24-year-old Terry Dolowy. He was being held at the Vernon County Jail on $1 million cash bail. Popp, 60, had not retained an attorney as of Wednesday morning, the Vernon County Clerk's Office said. Prosecutors said Popp knew Dolowy, a River Forest, Illinois, native who was a senior at the University of Wisconsin-La Crosse. At the time of her killing, he lived a short distance from where Dolowy lived in La Crosse County with her fiancé, according to a criminal complaint. Vernon and La Crosse County officials previously said that Dolowy had left her purse at home, she did not have her car and her dog was missing. At the time of her disappearance, she worked full time as a bar manager at an upscale restaurant in LaCrosse.  Dolowy went missing on Feb. 14, 1985, from her Barre Mills home. Days later, her decapitated and burning body was found in a roadside culvert in Vernon County. Her head has never been located, officials said. Years after the initial investigation, a paint chip was located in a sheet that had wrapped the body of the victim, officials previously said. Officials said at the time that the paint was possibly from the trunk of a vehicle that the body was transported in. The complaint states that Popp told police in March 1985 that he and his girlfriend went to pool tournaments with Dolowy and her fiancé and they were often pool partners, the La Crosse Tribune reported. DNA samples taken from Popp in January 2023 matched material found in Dolowy's autopsy, according to the complaint. While Popp originally said Dolowy was only a causal acquaintance, when authorities presented him in March 2023 with the DNA evidence linking him to Dolowy, he changed his story and said he and Dolowy "maybe had a little affair" for six to eight months, the complaint states.