What Biden's executive order on AI does and means
President Biden on Monday signed an executive ordercreating new standards for safety and privacy protections over artificial intelligence, a move the White House insists will safeguard Americans' information, promote innovation and competition, and advance U.S. leadership in the industry. With laws lagging far behind technological advances, the administration is touting the new EO as building onprior voluntary commitmentsfrom some of the leading tech companies on the safe and secure development of AI. In remarks Monday, the president called his executive order "the most significant action any government anywhere in the world has ever taken on AI safety, security and trust." "We're going to see more technological change in the next 10, maybe the next five years, than we've seen in the last 50 years," Mr. Biden said. "And that's a fact. And the most consequential technology of our time, artificial intelligence, is accelerating that change. It's going to accelerate it at warp speed. AI is all around us." AI provides incredible opportunities, but comes with significant risks, the president said. "One thing is clear — to realize the promise of AI and avoid the risk, we need to govern this technology," he said. "There's no other way around it, in my view. It must be governed." The president specifically mentioned "deepfakes," fake videos that, mimicking a person's voice, appear to show a person saying and doing something he or she never did. "I've watched one of me. I said, 'When the hell did I say that?'" the president said, to laughs. A senior administration official told reporters the EO "has the force of law" and they'll be using executive powers "pretty fulsomely," but the president will still pursue various bipartisan legislation with Congress. The executive order puts in place additional standards and requirements. The White House says the administration has consulted on AI governance frameworks with Australia, Brazil, Canada, Chile, the European Union, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, Japan, Kenya, Mexico, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Nigeria, the Philippines, Singapore, South Korea, the UAE, and the UK. Mr. Biden has urged Congress to craft legislation on AI, but technology is accelerating very quickly, the senior administration official who spoke to reporters said. And Congress has a lot on its plate. The administration thinks it's likely Congress will continue to work on AI.