Apple Vision Pro debuts Friday. Here's what you need to know.
Apple on Friday will roll out its Vision Pro mixed-reality goggles, marking the iPhone maker's first foray into augmented and virtual reality-equipped headgear. Unveiled last summer at its Worldwide Developer's Conference, the much-anticipated headset will be available in stores and online beginning February 2. The VR headset is Apple's first major rollout since it launched the Apple Watch, several years ago. It also comes on the tail of smart glasses recently launched by competitors such as Meta, Snapchat and Microsoft. Apple has already sold roughly 200,000 units of the Vision Pro, selling out the device earlier this week, MacRumours reported. Here is what you need to know about the Apple Vision Pro. The Apple Vision Pro is a mixed-reality headset that bears some similarities to smart spectacles from Meta, Snapchat and Microsoft which incorporate digital content with real-life scenery. The device has so far earned some praise from media outlets such as the Wall Street Journal, New York Times and a variety of digital news publications, such as The Vergeand CNET. The device's "volumetric landscape" display offers users a strikingly immersive experience compared to other VR-enabled devices, accordingto CNET. More than 600 apps have been developed specifically for the headset, which offers new ways to browse the internet, create notes and chat over text, the company's websiteshows. One standout feature enables users to pluck a 3D item out of an app and engage with it from different angles as if it were a tangible object set in front of them,accordingto Apple. Also, companies with pre-existing apps are rolling out special features utilizing the new Apple device's mixed-reality technologies. Capitalizing on its blockbuster movie franchises, Disney's streaming service, for example, will offer immersive viewing experiences on the headset, transporting users to one of four film-inspired virtual environments: The Star Wars desert world, the Monsters Inc. Scare Floor, Marvel's Avengers Tower and the Disney+ Theater, an immersive space inspired by Hollywood's iconic El Capitan Theatre, the company said Friday in a statement. In addition, Vision Pro users will be able to display more than 40 popular 3D films from the house of mouse, including "Avatar: The Way of Water," "Black Panther,""Inside Out" and "The Lion King," according to the Disneywebsite. By far the most expensive VR headset on the market, the starting price for the Apple Vision Pro is $3,499, Apple's website shows. By comparison, Meta's Headquest 3 retails at $499.99, while Snapchat's Spectacles 3 debuted at a price point of less than $400, according to the companies' respective product pages. The Apple Vision Pro will be available for purchase in stores and online starting Feb. 2, 2024. Pre-orders, which Apple began taking on Jan. 19, may arrive at buyers' doorsteps as soon as Friday, according to the company. Elizabeth Napolitano is a freelance reporter at CBS MoneyWatch, where she covers business and technology news. She also writes for CoinDesk. Before joining CBS, she interned at NBC News' BizTech Unit and worked on The Associated Press' web scraping team.