3 companies win NASA contracts to develop Artemis moon rover designs
Along  with funding the commercial development of new rockets, Artemis moon  landers and new spacesuits, NASA is pressing ahead with plans to buy an  unpressurized moon rover that can carry astronauts, science payloads — or both — across the rugged terrain of the lunar south pole, officials  said Wednesday. The  agency announced contract awards to three companies to develop  competing designs for a Lunar Terrain Vehicle, or LTV, similar in  concept to the rovers that carried the last three Apollo crews across  the moon's surface more than 50 years ago. But  the new models will feature state-of-the-art technology, long-lasting  tires, autonomous computer control and other technology upgrades, allowing them to cover much greater distances under manual astronaut  control or by remote control from Earth. "As  astronauts explore the south pole region of the moon during our Artemis  missions, they'll be able to go farther and conduct more science than  ever before thanks to the Lunar Terrain Vehicle," said Vanessa Wyche,  director of the Johnson Space Center. "Think of a hybrid of the Apollo  style lunar rover ... and an uncrewed mobile science platform." "This  will give the crew the capability to travel a distance much further  from their landing sites," Wyche said. "In addition, during uncrewed operations, the  LTV will provide autonomous operations for science and technology." The  milestone-based Lunar Terrain Vehicle Services contract has a maximum  value of $4.6 billion. But NASA is starting out small, doling out three  "feasibility" contracts to Intuitive Machines of Houston, Lunar Outpost  of Golden, Colorado, and Venturi Astrolab of Hawthorne, California. The  companies will spend the next 12 months perfecting their designs and  developing plans for getting their rovers to the moon. At that point,  NASA will conduct a formal competition and choose a single contractor to  proceed with actual development. The  goal is to have a working rover waiting on the moon when astronauts  making the third Artemis moon landing reach the lunar south pole later  this decade. Company  representatives, citing the competitive nature of the project, declined  to provide details on what sort of range their rovers might achieve,  whether they will use solar panels or how long a rover  might last. But  Jaret Matthews of Astrolab said NASA's initial requirements "are that  it travel 15 kilometers an hour, that it be able to traverse 20  kilometers on a charge and be able to support a full eight-hour EVA [moonwalk]. Those are the base-level requirements. It's our intention to  exceed those by quite a lot in most instances." Whatever  the specifics, the unforgiving environment of the lunar south pole will  pose a major challenge. Steve Altemus, CEO of Intuitive Machines, said  his company is working with Boeing, Michelin and Northrop Grumman to  develop its LTV. "We're  going to need this world-class team to do that because ... the  environment on the moon is harsh," Altemus said. "We have 500 degree  temperature swings. The south pole region is rocky and craggy and  shadowed. It's going to stress our suspension, our drivetrain, our power  systems, and our autonomous driving algorithms and software." "We're  going to need this globally integrated team to pull that off, to allow  this rover to live for 10 years and provide the service that NASA's  asking for," he added. The other competitors are partnering with major aerospace companies as well, and all three are confident they can meet the challenge. So is NASA. "We  are combining the best of human and robotic exploration," said Jacob  Bleacher, a planetary geologist who serves as NASA's chief exploration  scientist. "Between the Artemis missions, when our astronauts are not on  the moon, NASA can use the LTV's remote operation capabilities to  continue exploring. "The  LTV is truly an exploration vehicle," he said. "Where it will go, there  are no roads. Its mobility will fundamentally change our view of the  moon." NASA's  long-range plans for Artemis also include a pressurized rover that  could carry astronauts over much longer distances and provide a more  comfortable environment for long-duration exploration. Toyota is working  on a pressurized rover concept, but NASA has not released details about  how that vehicle might fit into the Artemis architecture.