Best places to see the April 8 solar eclipse in the totality path
America is gearing up for the April 8 total solar eclipse, and in less than a week many will be scrambling to find the best location to watch within the path of totality. Meteorologists are closely monitoring the latest models, and while it won't be until a few days prior to the event that the national forecast will be fully cooked, historical data suggests those hoping to view the corona and see a fully darkened midday sky may find themselves dodging clouds due to April weather patterns. The last time a total solar eclipse traversed an elongated path across the continental U.S. — on Aug. 21, 2017 — Americans could be caught gazing at the midday dark from Oregon all the way to South Carolina. Most spots along the path of totality enjoyed reasonably clear, summer skies. Those living or visiting along the path of totality next week may not end up so fortunate, as historical weather maps show the odds of experiencing a cloud-free sky at this time of year are somewhat less than ideal. In fact, finding a totally clear view at any given time is closer to the exception than the rule. "According to NASA, at any given time, 70% of the earth is covered in clouds," said Mike Augustyniak, CBS Minnesota director of meteorology. Not only is North America in the middle of the volatility of changing seasons during this year's solar event, but meteorologists note that we're also currently in an El Niño pattern, albeit one that's proven quieter than usual. "An El Niño   pattern tends to increase the chances of cloudy, rainy weather in those areas. Interestingly, though, that is not how this winter and spring have played out," said Augustyniak. "Since the start of 2024, Texas Hill Country and western Texas areas have been markedly drier than average; if that trend holds for the next few weeks, that would be good news for eclipse watchers." The path of totality is only about 150 miles wide, and in America stretches roughly 2,500 miles from the Texas border to the last few towns in northeastern Maine. That leaves only so many places where you can seek the full show, though the path's width will be significantly wider than it was in 2017, according to NASA, as the moon will to be closer to Earth on this pass than it was then. So will April showers bring spectator flowers? Here's a breakdown of which places along the path of totality are most likely to give eclipse chasers the best odds. Augustyniak said at this transitional time of year, the further south you can go, the more likely you are to experience clear skies during eclipse totality. "Of the areas where the total eclipse will be visible on April 8, that includes the Hill Country of Texas, and the Mexican states of Coahuila and Durango," Augustyniak said. Of course, the further south you get, the more you increase your chances of running into not only clouds, but rain.