SpaceX delays commercial space station flight pending data review
SpaceX  called off launch of its third commercial crew flight to the  International Space Station Wednesday to allow more time for pre-flight  data reviews. The flight, chartered by Houston-based Axiom Space, was  reset for Thursday pending final analysis. The  delay was announced as the flight's four-man crew — retired astronaut  Michael López-Alegría, Italian Walter Villadei, Swedish flier Marcus  Wandt and Turkey's Alper Gezeravci — were getting prepared for launch  on a two-week research mission aboard the orbital outpost. Liftoff  from the Kennedy Space Center's historic pad 39A was re-targeted for  4:49 p.m. EST Thursday, roughly the moment Earth's rotation carries the  rocket into the plane of the station's orbit to enable a rendezvous. During  a teleconference Tuesday night, Benji Reed, SpaceX senior director of  human spaceflight programs, mentioned two recent issues that engineers  were reviewing: concern about Crew Dragon parachute "energy modulator"  straps and the torquing of connectors holding the Crew Dragon to the  Falcon 9's upper stage. Reed  said an inspection of an unpiloted Cargo Dragon that recently returned  to Earth from the space station revealed some of the folded,  stitched-together straps holding the ship's main parachutes in place  during flight had not performed quite as expected. The  folded straps are designed to pull apart, unstitching in a controlled  fashion as the parachutes deploy, easing the shock of inflation. Some of  the straps on the Cargo Dragon's parachutes came unstitched in a way  that slightly increased those loads, although not enough to cause any  problems. Engineers  concluded the suspect straps had a tendency to twist during  installation, which may have contributed to the unstitching phenomenon.  As a result, the parachutes in the Crew Dragon awaiting launch were  inspected and adjusted to ensure no such twists are present. As  for the connectors holding the Crew Dragon to the Falcon 9, Reed said  some had been torqued, or tightened, to slightly different levels than  those specified. Out of "an abundance of caution," the connectors were  replaced. "We'll  be completing our launch readiness review tomorrow (Wednesday) morning,  and that will give us an opportunity to review all of the data and  finalize everything for the flight," he said. "Flying the crew safely is  always our top priority, and we will only launch when we're ready.".