NASA delays upcoming Artemis moon missions
NASA's first crewed Artemis mission, a flight to send four astronauts  on a voyage around the moon and back, is being delayed nearly a year,  from late 2024 to at least September 2025, NASA announced Tuesday.  Likewise, the first astronaut moon landing is slipping from late 2025 to  September 2026. "As we remind everybody at every turn, safety is  our top priority," NASA Administrator Bill Nelson told reporters during  an afternoon teleconference. "To give Artemis teams more time to work  through the challenges with first-time developments and integration,  we're going to give (them) more time on Artemis 2 and 3. "We are  adjusting our schedule to target Artemis 2 for September of 2025 and  September of 2026 for Artemis 3, which will send humans for the first  time to the lunar south pole. Artemis 4 remains on track for September  2028, and though challenges are clearly ahead, our teams are making  incredible progress." Rumors of delays had been circulating for months, and the Government Accountability Office reported late last year that delays were a virtual certainty. But the dates announced Tuesday pushed the flights back further than many expected. NASA  launched the Artemis program's first test flight, Artemis 1, in  November 2022, using the agency's powerful Space Launch System heavy  lift rocket to send an unpiloted Orion crew capsule on a flight around  the moon and back. NASA had planned to launch the Artemis 2  mission at the end of this year to carry a three-man one-woman crew on  the first piloted Orion flight, a shakedown mission to test the  spacecraft's life support, propulsion and other systems in Earth orbit  before pressing ahead for a deep space loop around the moon and back. But  mission managers opted to delay the launch to give engineers more time  to resolve an issue with the Orion capsule's protective heat shield that  was found after theArtemis 1 re-entry.  They also need to correct more recently discovered problems with  critical batteries that were found while testing units intended for the  Artemis 3 Orion. The heat shield is designed to ablate, or char,  during re-entry heating when returning from the moon at speeds of more  than 25,000 mph. During the Artemis 1 re-entry, more charred material  separated from the heat shield than computer models predicted. While  the unexpected "liberation" had no impact on the spacecraft — NASA  said astronauts would not have even noticed it had any been on board — engineers want to make sure they understand the underlying cause so that  updated computer models can accurately predict re-entry effects across  multiple trajectories. Amit  Kshatriya, deputy administrator of NASA's Moon to Mars Program, said  engineers are closing in on the root cause of the unexpected behavior.  The launch delay was primarily caused by the battery issue and the  disassembly required to access and replace them amid a myriad of complex  subsystems. "That Artemis 2 crew will be the first people to set  human eyes on the far side of the moon (since Apollo), and I can't  imagine all the pictures and recordings that they'll bring back to  capture those moments, but also to inform our understanding of the  moon," said NASA Associate Administrator Jim Free,  "The crew is a  constant reminder for us of how important it is to remain focused on  the work we need to do to ensure their safe return." As for the  Artemis 3 lunar landing flight, the late 2026 target assumes SpaceX's  Starship lunar lander — a vehicle that has not yet been operated in  space — successfully completes multiple test flights in Earth orbit,  along with at least one unpiloted lunar landing demonstration in 2025. The  Human Landing System, or HLS, is a variant of the Starship upper stage  SpaceX is building that will launch atop the company's gargantuan Super  Heavy booster. The HLS, being built under a $2.9 billion NASA  contract awarded in 2021, will use up all is cryogenic methane and  liquid oxygen propellant just getting to low-Earth orbit. To make it to  the moon, the rocket must be robotically refueled. Jessica Jensen,  SpaceX vice president of customer operations and integration, said on  the order of 10 Super Heavy-Starship "tanker" flights will be needed to  carry up the propellants needed to refuel the HLS. "It will  roughly be 10-ish," she said. "That would be my rough guess right now.  But it could be lower depending on how well the first flight tests go or  it could be a little bit higher." The  ultra-cold propellants, which continually boil away, must first be  transferred, one flight at a time, to a storage vehicle of some sort.  When enough propellant is available, the HLS will be launched, refueled  from the depot and then take off for the moon where it will await the  arrival of an Orion crew. SpaceX's first two Super Heavy-Starship test flights last year were only partially successful  and neither upper stage Starship made it all the way to the planned  sub-orbital trajectory. Jensen said a third test flight is planned for  February, pending FAA approval, followed by the start of propellant  transfer test flights later this year. Under the revised Artemis 3  schedule, an unpiloted HLS test flight to the surface of the moon and  back is planned for sometime in 2025. "Crew safety is paramount,"  Jensen said. "So we want to ensure we do as many flight tests as we  possibly can just on the Starship vehicle in general, but also do the  uncrewed landing to the moon with Starship before Artemis 3." Under  the Artemis program, NASA plans to establish a sustained presence on  the moon, sending astronauts on a regular basis to the south polar  region where scientists say ice deposits may be present in permanently  shadowed craters. If such deposits are confirmed, solar or nuclear  power could be used to break the ice down into hydrogen and oxygen,  providing air, water and rocket fuel for future deep space explorers.  Ice deposits could vastly reduce the cost of such missions compared to  launching the resources from Earth. China has similar plans to  explore the moon's south pole, saying its first piloted landing mission  is planned for 2030. Asked if he was worried China might win the latest  space race, Nelson said "I really do not have a concern that China's  going to land before us." "I think that China has a very  aggressive plan," he said. "I think they would like to land before us  because that might give them some PR coup. But the fact is that I don't  think they will.".