When and where to see tonight's Cold Moon, last full moon of 2023
The longest — and last — full moon of the year appeared on Monday night and will peak on Tuesday. December's full moon, also known as the Cold Moon and Long Night Moon, will reach peak illumination at 7:33 p.m. ET on Tuesday, according to NASA. It will look like a full moon until Thursday morning. The Old Farmer's Almanac details specific moonrise times for different ZIP codes across the United States. To view the full moon, it's not rocket science: NASA recommends going outside and looking upat the sky. Using a telescope or binocularswill magnify the moon and clarify details on its surface. Local forecasts have detailed information on how clear the night sky will be in different locations where people are keeping an eye out for the moon. December's full moon gets its Cold Moon moniker from Mohawk traditions, according to the Farmer's Almanac. The name is based on the frigid conditions of the time of year. The full moon is also called the Long Night Moon because December's full moon occurs near the winter solstice, which has the longest night of the year. This year's solstice was on Dec. 21. "The full moon takes a high trajectory across the sky because it is opposite to the low sun, so the moon will be above the horizon longer than at other times of the year," according to NASA. Other names for December's full moon include Drift Clearing Moon, Frost Exploding Trees Moon, Moon of the Popping Trees, Hoar Frost Moon, Snow Moon, Winter Maker Moon, Moon When the Deer Shed Their Antlers and Little Spirit Moon, according to the Farmer's Almanac. Ancient pagans in Europe called the December full Moon the Moon Before Yule. "No matter the name, we're a big fan," NASA said Tuesday on one of its social media accounts. Next month's full moon is dubbed the Wolf Moon. It will peak on Jan. 25. December's full moon does fall on Christmas sometimes, but it's a rare occasion. The last full moon to peak on Christmas was in 2015. Before that, there hadn't been one since 1977. Astronomers say the next Christmas full moon won't be until 2034.