A strawberry moon will take the night sky this weekend. Here's how to see it.
Around the world, people can catch a sweet treat in the night sky this weekend — the strawberry moon. The strawberry moon is June's full moon — and depending on where you live on the planet, it will appear on Saturday or Sunday, according to NASA. According toThe Old Farmer's Almanac, the name was used by Native American Algonquin tribes that live in the northeastern U.S. and Ojibwe, Dakota and Lakota peoples. It was used to mark the ripening of strawberries ready to be gathered in June. Traditionally, the strawberry moon is the full moon in June, which is typically the last of spring or the first of summer. This full moon also has other names such as flower moon, hot moon, honey moon, rose moon, Vat Purnima and Poson Poya, according to NASA. Since the strawberry moon will be positioned lower in the sky in the Northern Hemisphere, the moon will appear to give a "warmer" light, Space.com reported. Therefore, it will look more yellow or orange in a way similar to sunsets. This year, the Antares bright star, which is 36.7 light years away, will appear a few degrees to the right of the moon, according to NASA. The strawberry moon will be peak just before midnight at 11:42 p.m. Saturday EDT, said NASA, whose observations and time are based off their headquarters in Washington, D.C. For observers in Argentina and in Atlantic Daylight Time zones eastward across the rest of North America, Europe, Africa, Asia, and Australia, the strawberry moon will rise on Sunday, NASA said. It will look full from Friday night through Monday morning. The Farmer's Almanac suggests finding an open area and watching as the moon rises. The website details specificmoonrise timesfor different ZIP codes. Prior to the strawberry moon, May's flower moon and April's pink moon took the sky. And following this celestial event, there will be four supermoons in a row – one in July, two in August and one in September, retired NASA astrophysicist Fred Espanak told Space.com.